Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2007 with funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



http://www.archive.org/details/dialliterarycrit46browrich 



^ From the collection of the 

' IS ^ 

J X 2 m k 

Vlj o jrrelinger 

b t ^ v; P 



San Francisco, California 
2007 



THE DIAL 






qA Semi' Monthly Journal of 



Literary Criticism, Discussion, and Information 




VOLUME XLVI. 

January 1 to June 16, 1909 



CHICAGO 

THE DIAL COMPANY, PUBLISHERS 

1909 



"Ret, 



INDEX TO VOLUME XLVI. 

PAGE 

Acadia, Beginnings of Lawrence J. Burpee 20 

Actor, Biography of a Great Munson Aldrich Havens ... 12 

Actress, Fifty Years an Percy F. Bicknell 41 

Africa, Darkest, and other Lands H. E. Cohlentz 364 

America and the Far Eastern Question Payson J. Treat 324 

American History in American Poetry Isaac B. Pennypacker .... 135 

American Libraries through an English Monocle 73 

American Opera, Chapters of . George P. Upton 398 

American Poetry, Recent . WiUiam Morton Payne .... 48 

America's First Representative Body Walter L. Fleming 226 

Apostle of Good Citizenship, An 385 

Asian Art, Esthetic Value of Frederick W. Gookin .... 257 

Birds, The World's Family of Leander S. Keyser 361 

Book, The World's Wickedest . . • Lawrence C. Wroth 315 

Canada, Feudalism in Clarence Walworth Alvord . . 229 

Carlyle-Welsh Love-Letters, The Percy F. Bicknell 290 

Characters of the Last Century, Celebrated . . . Percy F. Bicknell 134 

Chaucer and his Times Clark S. Northup 185 

Child, The Century of the Caroline L. Hunt 325 

Chinese Women and Ways Percy F. Bicknell 254 

Colonial History, A Century of St. George L. Siou^sat . . . . 327 

Concord Memories Percy F. Bicknell S96 

Confederacy, Right Arm of the James M. Garnett 255 

Copyright Advance, The 217 

Courts, Congress, and Executive James Wilford Garner .... 138 

Creation and Criticism Charles Leonard Moore . . . 129 

Eastern Example, A Far 127 

English Literature, Cambridge History of ... . Lane Cooper 227 

Faust, The Newe.st Ellen C. Hinsdale 188 

Fiction, Recent William Morton Payne . 84, 262, 368 

FitzGerald, Time, Poetry, and Warren Barton Blake .... 177 

Fur Trader, Empire of the Lawrence J. Burpee 139 

Garden Paths, Through Sara Andrew Shafer .... 367 

Germany, The New W. H. Carruth 224 

Hale, Edward Everett 386 

Herculaneum, Story of G.J. Laing 112 

Holland House, The Lady of ........ . Anna Benneson McMahan . . 77 

Home Rule and Public Education • . . 247 

Ideal Democracy, Quest of the F. B. B. Hellems 15 

Inspiring Life, Records of an T. D. A. Cockerell 189 

Ireland of To-day, The Ellen FitzGerald 80 

Letters of the Wife of a Great Political Leader . W. H. Johnson 114 

Library Press of 1908, Gleanings from Aksel G. S. Josephson .... 71 

Library Suggestion, A 69 

Lincoln 101 

Lincoln's Last Days and Death Edwin E. Sparks 297 

Literary Friendships, A Memorial of Annie Russell Marble .... 223 

Lorenzo the Magnificent P. A. Martin 294 

Maid of France, The Laurence M. Larson .... 260 

"Marvel, Ik" 7 

Meredith, George ..." 353 

MiRABEAU, Youth of Henry E. Bourne 46 

Modern Types, Some Richard Burton 327 

MoLiERE IN English Verse H. C. Chatfield-Taylor .... 78 

Moon, Mountains of the HE. Coblentz 184 



IV. 



INDEX 



Muse in the Mountains, The . . . 

Nature and the Man 

Peace Congress, The 

PoE, Edgar Allan 

Poet of Science, The 

Poet's Study of a Poet, A . . . . 
Psychology and Psychotherapy . . 
Race Friction, Problems of ... . 

Realism, The New 

Rousseau in 1909 

Rousseau the Vagabond 

Santiago de Cuba Campaign, The . . 
ScHURz Reminiscences Concluded . . 
Scientific Research, A Life of 
Searching for What is Close at Hand 
Shelley the "Enchanted Child" 
Spanish Arts and Crafts, Early . . 

Speech and Concord 

Swinburne 

Typography, A Masterpiece of . . . 
Unliterary Temperament, The . . . 
United States, The, in World Politics 
Walpole, Sir Spencer, as Historian . 
Whitman, Walt, Individuality of 
Woman, a Noted, Reminiscences of . 



Percy F. Bicknell 355 

May Estelle Cook 362 

313 

Wamren Barton Blake . . . . 103 

Paul Shorey 17 

W. E. Simonds 141 

Joseph Jastrow 292 

J. W. Garner 19 

35 

Warren Barton Blake .... 388 

Charles H. A. Wager .... 283 

James A. Le Roy 186 

W. H. Johnson 82 

Percy F. Bicknell 322 

Edward E. Hale, Jr 296 



Anna Benneson McMahan . 
George Griffin Brownell 



Frederick W. Gookin 



399 
45 
175 
281 
401 

5 

Frederic Atistin Ogg .... 43 

Ephraim D. Adams 110 

W. E. Simonds 404 

George R. Sparks 108 



Announcement of Spring (1909) Books 

Bbiefs on New Books 

Briefer Mention 

Notes 

Topics in Leading Periodicals . . . 
Lists of New Books ....... 



195 

22, 62, 87, 116, 142, 190, 230, 265, 299, 329, 373, 405 

25, 145, 193, 233, 301, 332, 374, 408 

26, 55, 90, 118, 145, 194, 234, 268, 302, 332, 375, 408 

27, 91, 147, 235, 302, 376 

28, 56, 91, 119, 148, 202, 236, 269, 303, 334, 376, 409 



CASUAL COMMENT 



PAGE 

Abdul Hamid, the Book Collector 393 

Alliance Francaise, Next Lecturer Before 106 

Amateur Librarian, Joys of An 75 

American Culture, An English Conception of 131 

American Culture, Hungarian Impressions of 10 

American Newspapers, French Impressions of 285 

Angell, President, Resignation of 181 

Atlanta Library, Activity of the 250 

Author of Inscriptions, An 391 

Authorship, A Bar to Originality in 287 

Bain, R. Nisbet, Death of 392 

Berlin Royal Library's Ampler Quarters 39 

Biographers, Cruelty of 9 

"Book of Verses Underneath the Bough, A" 219 

"Book-Fakes," Multiplicity of 287 

Book-Lovers' Books, Readable Quality of 130 

Bookstore, Function of the 180 

Book-Titles, Duplication of 286 

Books and Book Schemes, Fake 286 

Books, Hunger for, in the Country 76 

Books, Of Making Many 183 

Books, Rare, Auction Sales of 321 

Brain-Pag, Best Cure for 359 

Buffalo's Book-Readers 288 

Bunyan Memorial, in Westminster Abbey, A 320 

Bureaucracy, The Pride of 132 

Burton's Bequest of Books 75 

Chaucer, An Early Portrait of 106 

Chaucer and the "New Thought" 183 



PAGE) 

Chesterton, G. K., Personality of 219 

Children's Story-Hour Conducted by Children 11 

Cipher Microbe, The 393 

Classifying Instinct, The "^4 

College Man in the "Bread Line" 359 

Copyright Question, Aspects of The 357 

Correspondence Schools, Possibilities of 40 

Crawford's Place in Literature 320 

Culture, Democratizing of 359 

Culture, Organization for Spreading 131 

Davidson, John, Suicide of 320 

District of Columbia's Public Library 74 

Dumb Animals' Advocate, The 221 

Educational Endowments, InsuflScient 8 

Encyclopaedia, A Nation Without an 133 

English Critic, Acumen of an 251 

English, Linguistic Conquests of 131 

English Spelling, A Foreigner's Opinion of 392 

Eucken, Professor Rudolf 37 

Europe's Ignorance of America 76 

Fisherman's Solace at Sea, The 131 

FitzGerald, Edward, Secret Enthusiasms of 181 

PitzGerald Centenary,- The 222 

Foresight, A Curious Instance of 319 

Free Library Freely Used, A 286 

French Literary Criticism 249 

French Novels, Signs of Decay in 219 

Genius, Weighing and Measuring 105 

Greek Literature and Art, Achievements of 37 



INDEX 



V. 



PAGE 

Handwriting of Culture, The 392 

Harper Memorial Library, The Proposed 358 

Harvard, The New Head of 74 

Herbert, George, as the Originator of Fletcherism . . . 251 

Historian of Rome, The New 75 

Howe, Mrs. Julia Ward, at Ninety 392 

"Hundred Worst Books," Dr. Crothers's 319 

Index, The Excitement of Reading an 38 

"Jew of Malta, The," at Williams College 221 

Journalism In China, The New 38 

Journalism, The Stylist in 318 

Knowledge, Useful, A Purveyor of 132 

Language, Problem of Origin of 105 

Library Activity, Westward Movement of 358 

Library Books, Cost of Circulating 182 

Library Books, Wear and Tear of 287 

Library Economy, The Literature of 40 

Library Habit in Olden Times 38 

Library of Pure Fiction, A 9 

Library on Wheels, A 106 

Library Patrons, Honor among 250 

Library Rules, Our Liberal 319 

Library Tax, The 320 

Librarian, A Strenuous 251 

Librarian, A Variously Gifted 320 

Librarian, Precipitate Removal of a 357 

Librarians, State Certification of 11 

Libraries as Bureaus of Information 183 

Light, Letting in the 11 

Lights to Literature, Contemporary i . . 9 

Lincoln, A Memorial to 76 

Lincoln Bibliography, A Useful 107 

Linotype, Literature of the 250 

Literary Journalism, The Final Word in 288 

Literary Material, Thrifty Utilization of 288 

Literature, A County's Growth in the Love of 250 

Literature as a Profession, Carlyle's View of 318 

Literature, Current, Disparaging 249 

Literature, Linear Measurement Applied to 287 

Literature, Litter and 107 

Mad-House, A Sure Road to the 180 

"Manufacturing Clause" in the Copyright Law 182 



PAOB 

Menander on a Modern Stage 250 

Monographs, The Making of Many 38 

Monthly Magazines, Bewildering Array of 359 

Mystery, Perennial Charm of 320 

Names, A Little Confusion of 288 

National Graduate School, The Proposed 220 

"New Theater," New York's 40 

Newberry Library's New Librarian 133 

News Service, An Up-to-the-MInute 288 

Novel, The Ending of a 220 

Osier as Speaker at a Library Dedication 107 

Parcels Post and the Public Library 132 

Past, Living Reality of the 181 

Philosophy, An Iconoclastic 221 

Plagiarism, Inverted, A Case of 392 

Poetry and Business 75 

Publishers, Mutual Confidence Among 358 

Reading, Age and the Love of 319 

Reading Habit, Hard Times and the 221 

Reading Matter, A Rubbish-Heap of 251 

Reading-room, Sweetness and Light In the 106 

Shakespeare, The Furness Variorum 10 

Shelley, Two Opinions of 391 

Signatures, Thumb-prints for 10 

Signed Review, Defence of the 182 

Spelling-reform, Progress of 107 

Spelling, Up-to-date, "Deformed" 222 

Spoflford, Mr., The Successor of, at Washington ... 39 

Stage Censorship by Reputable Actors 393 

Statistics — Handle with Care ! 220 

Story-teller, The Born 132 

Swinburne, Meredith's Estimate of 321 

Swinburne, The Shelleylsms of 358 

Typography, Needed Improvements In 318 

University, A Husky Young 11 

Veteran of Letters, A Youthfully Active 251 

Ward, Mrs. Humphry, in a New Environment 40 

World-Language, A New 220 

World-Languages to Suit All Tastes 8 

Wright, Carroll D., The Late 181 

Young Folks' Reading, Supervision of 359 



AUTHORS AND TITLES OF BOOKS REVIEWED 



PAOB 

Aflalo, F. G. Sunset Playgrounds 374 

Alden, Raymond M. Introduction to Poetry 194 

"American Commonwealth Series" 115 

"American Crisis Biographies" 255 

"American Fields and Forests, In" 363 

Anderson, Galusha. Story of a Border City during 

the Civil War 23 

Anonymous. The Inner Shrine 370 

Austen, Jane, Novels of. Illustrated edition 146 

Avebury, Lord. Peace and Happiness 142 

Babbitt, Irving. Literature and the American Col- 
lege 889 

Baedeker's "Greece" and "Central Italy and Rome," 

new editions : 332 

Barker, Edward H. France of the French 299 

Barnett, Samuel and Henrietta. Essays toward 

Social Reform 301 

Barrett, Eaton Stannard. The Heroine, new edition 333 
Barrows, David P. History of the Philippines, new 

edition 117 

Bartholomew, J. G. Handy Reference Atlas of the 

World, new edition 90 

Bashford, H. H. The Pilgrims' March 369 

Batson, Mrs. Stephen. A Summer Garden of Pleas- 
are 368 

"B. C. A." My Life as a Dissociated Personality.. 333 
Beale, Harriet S. Blaine. Letters of Mrs, James G. 

Blaine 114 

Beale, S. Sophia. Recollections of a Spinster Auiit! 300 

Belloc, Hllaire. On Nothing and Kindred Subjects . . 143 

Bernard, Augustc. Gecfroj- Tory 401 

Berry, W. Grlnton. France Since Waterloo 406 



PAGE 

Besant, Sir Walter. Early London 267 

Bindloss, Harold. Lorlmer of the Northwest 264 

BInyon, Laurence. Painting In the Far East 257 

Blrdseye, Clarence F. The Reorganization of our 

Colleges 265 

BIthell, Jethro. The Minnesingers 408 

"Book Prices Current, Index to," 1897-1906 338 

Bowker, R. R. State Publications, concluding vol.. 269 

Brahms, Johannes. Herzogenberg Correspondence... 232 
Bralthwaite, William S. The House of Falling 

Leaves 50 

Bray, Olive. The Elder Edda 118 

Brooks, John Graham. As Others See Us 54 

Brown, Alice. The Story of Thyrza 372 

Bulwer's The Lost Tales of Miletus, new edition. . . 375 

Butler, Nicholas M. The American as He Is 25 

Cable, George W. Kincald's Battery 87 

Caffln, Charles H. The Appreciation of the Drama. 25 

Caine, Hall. My Story 223 

Cains, Georges. Walks in Paris 373 

"Cambridge Editions of the Poets" 333 

Carlyle, Alexander. Love Letters of Thomas Carlyle 

and Jane Welsh 290 

Carpenter, George Rice. Walt Whitman 404 

Carr, J. Comyns. Some Eminent Victorians 134 

Carruth, William H. Each in his Own Tongue 50 

Carter, Charles F. When Railroads were New 406 

Channing, Edward. History of the United States, 

Vol. II 327 

Cheney, John Vance. The Time of Roses 49 

Chesterton, Gilbert K. Orthodoxy 52 

"Churchill, Lady Randolph, Reminiscences of" 108 



Vlll. 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Thompson, Francis. Shelley 399 

Thurston, E. Temple. Mirage 264 

Thurston, Katharine Cecil. The Fly on the Wheel. 86 
Tompkins, Eugene. History of the Boston Theatre. . 144 

Towler, W. G. Socialism in Local Government 332 

Trevelyan, Sir George. Life and Letters of Lord 

Macaulay, new one-volume edition 302 

Tyler, John M. Man in the Light of Evolution 24 

Uzanne, Octave. Drawings of Watteau 193 

Vernon, William W. Readings on the Paradise of 

Dante 333 

"Viking Club Translation Series," Vol. II 118 

Vlllari, Pasquale. Studies, Historical and Critical.. 232 
Waldsteln, Charles, and Shoobrldge, Leonard. Her- 

culaneum 112 

Wallace, Charles W. Children of the Chapel at 

Blackfriars 55 

Walpole, Sir Spencer. History of Twenty-five Years, 

Vols. III.-IV 110 

Walsh, William S. Abraham Lincoln and the London 

Punch 332 

Walton, George L. Practical Guide to Wild Flowe^-s 

and Fruits 374 

Ward, A. W., and Waller, A. R. Cambridge History 

of English Literature, Vols. I.-II 227 

Warner, Amos G. American Charities, new edition.. 145 
Watson, H. B. Marriott. The Devil's Pulpit 85 



PAGE 

Webster, Henry K. A King In Khaki 371 

Weitenkampf, Frank. How to Appreciate Prints... 144 

Welch, Catherine. The Little Dauphin 89 

Wells, Charles. Joseph and his Brethren 55, 193 

Wells, H. G. Tono-Bungay 262 

Wells, H. G. The War in the Air 85 

Whistler's "Ten O'clock Lecture" 118 

White, Henry Alexander. Stonewall Jackson 255 

Whiteing, Richard. Little People 266 

Wilcox, Walter G. Camping In the Canadian Rock- 
ies, third edition 374 

Wilenkln, Gregory. Political and Economic Organi- 
zation of Modern Japan 333 

Williams, Jesse Lynch. Mr. Cleveland 301 

Williams, Leonard. Arts and Crafts of Older Spain. 45 

Williams, Theodore C. Virgil's "^neid" 52 

Wilson, Woodrow. Constitutional Government in the 

United States 138 

Wilstach, Paul. Richard Mansfield 12 

"Who's Who," 1909 118 

Wollaston, A. F. R. From Ruwenzorl to the Congo. 365 

"World's Classics" 55, 118, 193, 375 

Wright, Horace W. Birds of the Boston Public Gar- 
den 374 

Wright, John. Some Notable Altars. . . : 233 

"Wyllarde, Dolf." Rose-White Youth 86 

Young, William. Baxter's Saints' Rest, new edition. 234 



MISCELLANEOUS 



PAGE 

"Biographized" as a Dictionary Word. Titus M. 

Coan 41 

"Blue Bird, The," at Moscow. Margaret Vance... 322 
Carnegie Institution and Literature. S. Weir 

Mitchell 108 

Carpenter Memorial Library, The Proposed 384 

Chelsea (Mass.) Public Library, The New 234 

Copyright and the Importation Privilege. George 

Haven Putnam 252 

Copyrighted Books, Importation of. George H. 

Putnam 394 

Crawford, Francis Marion, Death of 269 

Cuyler, Theodore L., Death of 195 

Davis, Mrs. M. E. M., Death of 55 

Esperanto and the Esperantists. E. Le Olercq 40 

Hart, SchafEner & Marx Prize Essays 147 

Holmes, Oliver Wendell, Centennial of 234 

"Ido" and "Pigeon English." O. H. Mayer 76 

"Ido," Esperanto and. Eugene F. McPike 76 

Lamont, Hammond, Death of 375 

LeRoy, James A., Death of 194 

Library Books, Cost of Circulating. O. jB. Howard 

Thomson 253 

Library of Congress, Figures of 146 

Lilllbridge, Will, Death of 145 

Literary Copyright League, From the. Bernard O. 

Steiner and W. P. Gutter 321 

Literature in Libraries, Encouraging. Asa D. Dick- 
inson 183 



PAGE 

Literary Seedsman, Another Charles Welsh 108 

Mathews, William, Death of 146 

Modern Language Association, Fourteenth Annual 

Meeting of the Central Division of the 83 

Newberry Library, Annual Report of 302 

Paine, Thomas, and Roosevelt, Theodore. Inquirer. . 360 
Pennsylvania History in Poetry. Isaac R. Penny- 
packer 288 

Poems of American History. Burton E. Stevenson. 222 
Roosevelt, Theodore, and Thomas Paine. James F. 

Morton, Jr.; Frederic M. Wood 393 

St. Louis During the Civil War. Oalusha Anderson. 133 
Shakespeare's Heroines, Beauty Spots of. Morris 

P. Tilley 360 

Stedman, Edmund Clarence, Death of 333 

Sturgis & Walton Co., Organization of 234 

Sturgls, Russell, Death of 146 

Sunday-Opening Movement, A Set-Back to 302 

Tennyson and "The Quarterly Review." Albert H. 

Tolman 108 

Thacher, John Boyd, Death of 194 

Trenton (N. J.) Bibliography 302 

Typographical Reforms, Some Needed. George 

French 395 

Vermont State Library Commission, Increased 

Powers of 302 

Virginia State Library's Fifth Annual Report 268 

Whistler's Portrait of His Mother. I/ydia A. Coon- 
ley Ward 11 



THE DIAL 

^ SEMI-MONTHLY JOURNAL OF 

Editbd by \ Volume XL VI. ptlTP A P O T A "NT 1 1 QOQ lOcU.a copy. J Fine Arts Building 

CIS F.BROWNE/ No.BUl. Kj n.l.Kj J\.\X\J ^ O .^Vi. J. ^ l.V\JV. $2. a year. I 203 Michigan Blvd. 



Lewis Rand 

is not only the best novel which Mary 
Johnston has written, but it is the most 
popular book in the United States, and 
vies with one other in being the first 
choice in England. All this in a season 
which includes novels by the leading 
authors on both sides of the Atlantic. 

This only goes to show that the 
critics were right in acclaiming it one 
of the greatest American novels ever 
written, and in comparing Miss John- 
ston's work with that of Hawthorne. 

"Lewis Rand" is a novel of perma- 
nent value, a book to own, to read, and 

to discuss. Illustrated in color by F, C. Yohn. $1.50. 
BOSTON HOUGHTON MIFFLIN CO. new york 



THE DIAL [Jan. 1, 



FOR LIBRARIANS 

A Reference List of A. C. McClurg & Co.'s Library Books of 1908 

CARR, CLARK E. 

My Day and Generation. Over 60 illustrations. Indexed. Large 8vo, gilt top. 

Net $3.00 
The author has known intimately as many of the great men and women of this country as any other 
man now living. Moreover, as Minister to the Court of Denmark, he came to know well various 
members of the Danish Royal Family, and he records his impressions of them in his latest book, of 
which it has been said that " for general interest and timeliness it can be compared only to Andrew 
White's Autobiography." 

DAVENPORT, CYRIL, and Others 

Little Books on Art. Each with frontispiece in color and 40 other illustrations. 
Square i8mo Per volume, net $1.00 

JEWELLERY MINIATURES 

ENAMELS BOOKPLATES 

These four little volumes have an especial appeal to all persons of artistic discernment. They 
contain in compact form a vast amount of information for the student and collector, and they offer a 
complete history of the several arts of which they treat. 

FALLOWS, THE RT. REV. SAMUEL, D.D., LLD. 

Health and Happiness; or, Religious Therapeutics and Right Living. i2mo. 

Net $1.50 
This volume is the outcome of Bishop Fallows's experiments in his church in Chicago, where 
wonderful results in the treatment of various afflictions have been accomplished through prayer and faith, 
upon a basis of practice original with him, but founded on the principles laid down by Dr. Hudson. 

HODGSON, MRS. WILLOUGHBY 

How to Identify Old Chinese Porcelain. 40 illustrations and index. Small 8vo. 

Net $2.00 
A book containing much valuable information for collectors and all others interested in porcelain, 
by a capable authority. 

LEE, VERNON (Violet Paget) 

Studies of the Eighteenth Century in Italy. New edition, enlarged with new 

preface. With 41 full-page illustrations. Small 4to net $6.00 

" Vernon Lee " has long been regarded as one of the most authoritative writers on Italy, and her 

studies of the Italian great of the eighteenth century are worthily supplemented with illustrations 

selected by Dr. Biagi, the learned head of the Laurentian Library at Florence. The book is 

elegantly printed. 

LIFE STORIES FOR YOUNG PEOPLE 

A Series of Popular Biographical Romances. Translated from the German by George 
P. Upton. Each in one volume, illustrated, small square i8mo . . net $ .60 

Neiu Volumes : 
Marie Antoinette's Youth, by Heinrich von Lenk. Arnold of Winkelried, by Gustav Hocker. 

The Duke of Brittany, by Henriette Jeanrenaud. Undine, by Baron de la Motte Fouque. 

Previous Volumes : 

MUSICAL BIOGRAPHY: HISTORICAL. LEGENDARY . 

Beethoven Barbarosa Frederick the Great Frithjof Saga 

Mozart William of Orange The Little Dauphin Gudrun 

Johann Sebastian Bach Maria Theresa Hermann and Thusnelda The Nibelungs 

Joseph Haydn The Maid of Orleans The Swiss Heroes William Tell 

The same, pictures hand-colored, special binding, per volume net $i.^o. 

PEMBERTON, MAX 

The Amateur Motorist. With 68 illustrations. Large 8vo . ... net $2.75 
The author has written both for those who own cars and for those who would own them — helping 
the former by a record of personal experiences, and the latter by a re-statement of those elementary facts 
which are often obscured by the more scientific discussion. 

A. C. McCLURG & CO. PUBLISHERS CHICAGO 



1909] THE DIAL 



FOR LIBRARIANS 

A Reference List of A. C. McClurg & Co.'s Library Books of 1908 

MOLMENTI, POMPEO 

History of Venice. Translated from the Italian by Horatio F. Brown. 6 volumes, 
8vo, profusely illustrated, frontispieces in color and gold. 

Part I. Venice in the Middle Ages, two volumes. 
Part II. Venice in the Golden Age, two volumes. 
Part III. The Decadence of Venice, two volumes. 
Each part sold separately . . net $5.00 The set of 6 volumes . . net $15.00 
This monumental work on Venice, by one of the leading historians and scholars of present-day 
Italy, was issued simultaneously in Italy, England, and America. The translator is himself an authority 
on Venice, who has held the distinguished position of British archivist in that city. The volumes are 
printed in the beautiful Italian type cut by Bodoni, which was so famous a century ago, and has since 
been revived by the University Press. 

RAMSAY, DEAN 

Reminiscences of Scottish Life and Character. With 16 illustrations in color, 
from original water-color drawings by H. N. Kern. Crown 8vo, full gilt net $2.75 
The favorable reception which has continuously been given to these Reminiscences since their first 
appearance a little more than fifteen years ago, at home, in America, in India, and in all countries 
where Scotchmen are to be found, warrants this new edition. This work was undertaken to depict a 
phase of national manners which was fast passing away, and social customs and habits of thought, 
characteristic of the race, are illustrated by a copious application of anecdotes. An especially attractive 
feature of this new edition is the beautifully colored illustrations of characters and scenes which are in 
sympathy with the spirit of the text. 

SINGLETON, ESTHER 

Handbook to the Standard Galleries of Holland. Uniform style "Sojourning 
and Shopping in Paris." Small square i6mo, 50 illustrations . . . net $1.00 
Miss Singleton has recognized fully the special charm afforded by the study of the works of Hobbema, 
Ruisdael, Van Goyen, Rembrandt, and the other great Dutch and Flemish artists, amid the scenes and 
people that inspired their work. Not only does she show her tourist the best which the many large 
galleries contain, blending criticism with concise biographical sketches, but she calls his attention to 
the living types, the interiors of buildings, pictures of still life in the villages, country-houses reminiscent 
of Pieter de Hooch, and the like. Altogether, she has succeeded in formulating a handbook which 
presents an amazing amount of information, and thus enables the student to plan his visits to the galleries 
with the greatest economy of time. 

UPTON, GEORGE P. 

Musical Memories. My Recollections of Famous Celebrities, 1850-1900. With 

many portraits. Large 8vo, gilt top net $2.75 

In addition to his authoritative musical knowledge, Mr. Upton has had the advantage of a long 
newspaper experience. His ability to avoid technical detail on the one hand and elementary generalities 
on the other, is the secret of his success. He has known more or less intimately nearly every great 
musical artist of the past half-century, and his recollections are as kindly and entertaining as his criti- 
cisms are incisive and just. 

The Standard Concert Guide. A Handbook of the Standard Symphonies, Ora- 
torios, Cantatas, and Symphonic Poems, for the Concert Goer. Profusely illus- 
trated. i2mo $1-75 

WILLIAMS, LEONARD 

The Arts and Crafts of Older Spain. With over 150 full-page illustrations. In 

3 volumes. Small 4to, boxed net $4.50 

A companion work to "The Arts and Crafts of Old Japan ^ 
This work, by the most prominent authority on Spanish art, is the basis of much of the most inter- 
esting modern development in art and decorative design, and is of immense value to every student, art 
library, and school of design. Following is a list of the subjects: Furniture, Leather-work, Wood- 
carving, Iron-work, Bronze-work, Arms, Pottery and Porcelain, Textile Fabrics, Architecture, Glass, 
Gold, Silver, and Ivory-work. 

A. C. McCLURG & CO. PUBLISHERS CHICAGO 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 1, 1909. 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 

begs to call attention to the list of important 
books in preparation for early publication. 

A GREAT WORK JUST COMPLETED 

Edited by Professor LIBERTY H. BAILEY, of Cornell University. 

President of the Association of American Agricultural Colleges and Experiment Stations, Head of the 
special Commission recently appointed by President Roosevelt to investigate the conditions of modern 
country life. 

Cyclopedia of American Agriculture Finai volume 

To he complete in four imperial octavo volumes. The set, cloth, $20.00 ; half morocco, f 32.00. ready 

I. Farms, Climates, Soils, etc. III. Farm Animals. "» January. 

II. Farm Crops (individually in detail). IV. The Farm and the Community. 



The Fascinating History of the Making of a World. 

Mr. Percival Lowell's 

Mars as the Abode of Life 

The theme of the book is planetary evolution in 
general. Professer Lowell's fascinating studies of 
Mars are but a part of his study of planetology. 
bridging the evolutionary gap between the nebular 
hypothesis and the Darwinian theory. 

Mars and its Canals By the same author. 
"Those who have the most vague conceptions of 
astronomical studies will immediately feel the charm 
and earnestness of this unique volume," say the 
critics. 

£oth volumes are illustrated with plates (some 
of them in colors J reproduced from exceptional 
photographs. Each, $2.60 net; by mail, $2.70. 

Mr. A. Lawrence Lowell's unique work of 
The Government of England 

" Mr. Lowell has successfully mastered a task which 
no other student of political science, English or 
American, has attempted." — The Independent. 

Cloth, $U.OO net; by mail, $A.3i. 

As Others See Us 

By John Graham Brooks 

Author of " The Social Unrest." 
" A book of singular suggestiveness and admirable 
temper . . . which ought to sell by tens of thou- 
sands." — Boston Herald. 

Cloth, illus., $1.75 net; by mail, $1.89. 

Friendship Village By Zona Gale 

Author of'' The Loves of Pelleas and Etarre." 
" A book to smile and sigh over happily, to tuck upon 
the personal bookshelf where stand those favorite 
friends we never mean to part with." — Record- 
Herald (Chicago). Cloth, ISmo, $1.50. 

Ellla Higginson's 

Alaska, the Great Country 

" Mrs. Higginson has put the very soul of picturesque 
Alaska into her pages, and done it with a degree of 
truth, sympathy, and enthusiasm that will make her 
book a classic." — Record-Herald (Chicago). 

Cloth, illus., $2.25 net; by mail, $2.U1. 

By the author of "The Pleasures of Life." 

Peace and Happiness 
By the Rt. Hon. Lord Avebury, P.C. 

better known perhaps even yet to many readers as 
Sir John Lubbock. Ready February 3. 



A New Volume of a Monumental Woi'k 

The Cambridge Modern History 

Vol. XI. The Growth of Nationalities 

The two remaining series of this indispensable refer- 
ence work are actively preparing. 
Cloth, imperial 8vo, price, per volume, $i.00 net 
(carriage extra). Ready January 12. 

The United States as a World Power 

By A. C. Coolidge Harvard University. 

" Intensely interesting . . . practically what he has 
done — and has done extremely well — is to examine 
the relations of the United States to other nations, 
and forecast their probable evolution." — Netv York 
Times. Cloth, $2.00 net; by mail, $2.11,. 

A New Book by the author of " The Inward Light." 

One Immortality 
By H. Fielding Hall 

By the author of " The Soul of a People," etc. 

Ready January 20. 

The Assassination of Abraham 

Lincoln and its Expiation 
By David Miller DeWitt 

the author of " The Impeachment and Trial of 
President Johnson." Ready very shortly. 

By A. Barton Hepburn 
Artificial Waterways and Commercial 
Development 

including a history of the Erie Canal. By the author 
of "The Contest for Sound Money." 

Ready shortly. 



The Acropolis of Athens 
By Martin L. D'Ooge 



University of Michigan. 
Illustrated, price, probably $i.00 net. 



Eden Philpotts's new novel 

The Three Brothers 



By the author of " The Secret Woman." " Children 
of the Mist," etc. Cloth, 12mo, $1.50. 



PUBLISHED 
BY 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 



64-66 Fifth Ave., 
NEW YORK 




THE DIAL 

a &nttt*iWont!jIg Houmal of Ettnrarg Crtttciam, ©igniggujn, anti Infomtatfcn. 



THE DIAL {founded in 1880 J is published on the 1st and 16th oj 
each month. Xebms of Subscription, 82. a year in advance, postage 
prepaid in the United States, and Mexico; Foreign and Canadian 
postage 50 cents per year extra. Remittances should be by check, or 
by express or postal order, payable to THE DIAL COMPANY. 
Unless otherwise ordered, subscriptions will begin with the current 
number. When no direct request to discontinue at expiration of sub- 
scription is received, it is assumed thai a continuance of the subscription 
is desired. Adtebtisino Rates furnished on application. All com- 
munications should be addressed to 
THE DIAL, Fine A rts Building, Chicago. 

Entered as Second-Class Matter October 8, 1892, at the Post Office 
at Chicago, Illinois, under Act of March 3, 1879. 

No. 641. JANUARY 1, 1909. Vol. XLVl. 

Contents. 

PAOB 

THE UNLITERARY TEMPERAMENT .... 5 

IK MARVEL 7 

CASUAL COMMENT 8 

Insufficient educational endowments. — World- 
languages to suit all tastes. — Lights of literature 
as viewed by contemporaries. — A public library 
of pure fiction. — The cruelty of biographers. — 
The Fumess Variorum Shakespeare. — Hungarian 
impressions of American culture. — Thumb-prints 
for signatures. — A children's story-hour conducted 
by children. — State certification of librarians. — 
Letting in the light. — A husky young university. 

COMMUNICATION 11 

Whistler's Portrait of his Mother. Lydia Avery 
Coonley Ward, 

A GREAT ACTOR'S BIOGRAPHY. Munson Aldrich 

Havens 12 

THE QUEST OF THE IDEAL DEMOCRACY. 

F. B. R. Hellems 15 

THE POET OF SCIENCE. Pavd Shorey .... 17 

PROBLEMS OF RACE FRICTION. J. W. Garner 19 

THE BEGINNINGS OF ACADIA. Lawrence J. 

Burpee 20 

BRIEFS ON NEW BOOKS 22 

The teacher and the taught. — The religion of a 
scientific man. — Venice at the coming of Napoleon. 
— Life in a Border city in war-time. — The defects 
of our colleges. — Evolution upside down. — The 
domestic correspondence of Christina Rossetti. — 
The dangers of overcaring for the health. — From 
Hampton Roads to the Golden Gate. — Dramatic 
principles for the playgoer. 

BRIEFER MENTION 25 

NOTES 26 

TOPICS IN LEADING PERIODICALS .... 27 

LIST OF NEW BOOKS 28 



THS: UNLITEBARY TEMPERAMENT. 



There is a familiar classification of men that 
divides them into idealists and realists, or 
Platonists and Aristotelians. They might also 
be somewhat similarly divided into those who 
look out on life through the window of litera- 
ture, and those who look out on literature 
through the window of life ; or those who never 
can get the full flavor of an action or event till 
it is served up with a literary sauce, and those 
who find no relish in a piece of literature till 
its substance is placed before them in concrete 
and tangible form. As to which of the two 
windows above-named offers the fairer and 
wider and richer view, there is room for differ- 
ence of opinion. Through which one the objects 
seen are less distorted by imperfections in the 
panes of glass, might be considered less open 
to dispute. A third question, whether the lit- 
erary or the unliterary person will write the 
better books, seems at first capable of but one 
answer, and that in favor of the man of letters. 
But let us pause and reflect. 

Professor Kuno Francke has of late been 
cheering his soul with the glad vision of a dawn- 
ing German renaissance, a new birth of Teutonic 
literature and art ; quod honum faustum felix 
fortunatumque sit, say we, with old Livy. The 
Germans, however, are by common consent the 
most inveterately bookish of all nations ; and in 
creative literature there is more hope of an 
unlettered backwoodsman than of a pedantic 
bookman. The Germans are unsurpassed as 
lexicographers and encyclopaedia-makers ; they 
write the most learned and elaborate prolego- 
mena to still more erudite and exhaustive studies 
of all things that eye hath seen, or ear heard, 
or that have entered into the heart of man ; 
they publish huge Bearheitungen (belaborings) 
of earlier books that are only a little less pon- 
derous ; they philosophize voluminously on being 
and not-being, on the pure reason and the 
practical reason, on the finite act or object as 
viewed under the appearance of eternity ; they 
refine on the categories till one is lost in amaze- 
ment at the fearful and wonderful subtlety of 
the human brain ; and they translate and edit, 
compile and revise, annotate and elucidate, till 
the wonder is that the very presses do not break 



6 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 1, 



down from excess of toil. In the zeal of scholar- 
ship one German philologist will wax wroth at 
another and shed whole bottles of ink in the 
battle over a disputed iota subscript in Euripi- 
des ; or he will consecrate his life to the study 
of the dative case in Dionysius of Halicarnassus, 
or to counting the occurrences of the cognate 
accusative in the post-classical Latin poets. In 
short, your Berlin or Leipzig university pro- 
fessor will put into book form everything imag- 
inable except what will make a book such as 
one would ever dream of reading, from cover to 
cover, in preference to eating or sleeping. 

Even the giants of German literature, Goethe 
and Schiller and Lessing, are by no means free 
from bookishness in the sense that Shakespeare 
and Chaucer and Scott and Tolstoy are free from 
its taint. How much of Homer's charm is due 
to the fresh free atmosphere he breathes ! How 
little bookish is Cervantes ! How unspoiled by 
study the style of Defoe, of Bret Harte, of Mrs. 
Stowe in "Uncle Tom's Cabin," of Mark Twain 
in all his books, of Robert Louis Stevenson in 
the best of his ! On the other hand, who but 
scholars can thoroughly enjoy Virgil or Dante 
or Milton, Dryden or Pope, Keats or Browning ? 
Even Tennyson appeals less irresistibly to the 
great public than does our simpler and homelier 
Longfellow. 

Is there anything in the world of letters more 
astonishing than the wild fancy that the book- 
man Bacon, learned author of the JVovum 
Organum and the De Sapientia Veterum, 
could by any feat of intellectual gymnastics 
have written the plays of Shakespeare — could 
have even remotely conceived such characters 
as Dogberry and Verges, Falstaff and Dame 
Quickly, Katherine and Beatrice, Jidiet's nurse 
and Lear's fool? Bacon's was a wonderful 
mind, but he had not Shakespeare's unliterary 
temperament, the mind not sicklied o'er with 
the pale cast of thought. When it shall have 
been proved that John Locke, for example, 
wrote the Waverley Novels (which would seem 
to be a psychological as well as a chronological 
impossibility), then we will listen to arguments 
demonstrating the Baconian authorship of 
Shakespeare. 

The literary temperament is much given to 
juggling with words, and very pretty play it 
often is ; but in the end, as was said of Glad- 
stone, words have a way of juggling with the 
juggler, which is as contrary to the fitness of 
things as for the tail to wag the dog. The 
unliterary man deals with things : he craves 
actualities and will not be put off with their 



symbols. At the ordination of Charles Francis 
Barnard, of whom the lamented Francis Tiffany 
wrote so excellent a memoir, William Ellery 
Channing spoke a true word. Its application 
is broader than the special occasion of its utter- 
ance. " The poor," said Channing, " are gen- 
erally ignorant, but in some respects they are 
better critics than the rich, and make greater 
demands on their teachers. They can only be 
brought and held together by a preaching which 
fastens their attention, or pierces their con- 
sciences, or moves their hearts. They are no 
critics of words, but they know when they are 
touched or roused, and by this test, a far truer 
one than you find in fastidious congregations, 
they judge the minister and determine whether 
to follow or forsake him." 

What is it that gives so undying a charm, 
so satisfying a reality, to some autobiographies, 
but the fact that they are written by unliterary 
yet not ungifted men ? John Woolman's jour- 
nal, Wesley's account of his itinerant ministry, 
Cellini's frankly egotistic life of himself. Grant's 
modestly direct and simple ''Personal Memoirs " 
— it is books like these that, in Luther's phrase, 
have hands and feet and take powerf id hold on 
us. How present and real does Grant seem to 
the reader when he explains in his preface the 
circumstances attending the writing of his book. 
" At this juncture," he says, " the editor of the 
Century Magazine asked me to write a few 
articles for him. I consented for the money it 
gave me ; for at that moment I was living upon 
borrowed money. The work I found congenial, 
and I determined to continue it." Again, in the 
later pages of the narrative, most agreeable is 
it to read what occurred when Lee called upon 
Grant to get the terms of surrender for his 
army. " Our conversation grew so pleasant, ' 
declares the undated conqueror, " that I almost 
forgot the object of our meeting." Dr. Charles 
Conrad Abbott somewhere says of his boyhood 
friend and hero, MUes Overfield, whose mind 
hugged the things of daily life with extraor- 
dinary tenacity : " Since his primer was tossed 
aside with a shout of joy, as of a prisoner set 
free, his eyes had seldom rested on a printed 
page, and never quite understandingly ; yet 
Miles Overfield, though unlettered, was not 
unlearned." 

There is one glory of the literary tempera- 
ment, and another glory of the unliterary ; and 
which is the more radiant no man will ever be 
able to say. The artful charm of Walter Pater, 
of Charles Lamb, of Cicero and of Horace, is so 
seductive that in their genial company one won- 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



ders that other and nider and simpler enter- 
tainers should ever be desired. Why turn one's 
back for a moment on these aristocrats and 
seek plebeian society? Some novelist (was it 
Anthony Trollope?) has pictured a pampered 
epicure who at times was overcome with so 
violent a craving for a crust of dry bread and 
an onion that he would slyly procure these 
homely edibles, shut himself up in his room, 
and, locking- the door even against his valet, 
would in stealthy privacy regale himself on the 
unaccustomed simple fare, before he could be 
induced once more to return to the elaborate 
diet of his ordinary life. The bread and onions 
of literature the healthy mind persists in de- 
manding after a surfeit of banqueting on more 
artfully prepared viands. It is as if the intel- 
lect needed this occasional reminder to check its 
arrogance and recall it to the leVel of common 
things. The most aspiring balloonist cannot 
sever his connection with earth: panting for 
breath in the rarefied atmosphere of the upper re- 
gions, he is forced to open the valve and descend 
to a denser stratum. Mr. Howells's account 
of Lowell's finding, in the failing health of his 
last years, a singular solace in Scott's novels, a 
comfort such as no other fiction could afford, is 
more than a little significant. Lowell's was 
preeminently the literary. Sir Walter's the 
unliterary, or, perhaps better, the unbookish, 
temperament. 



IK MARVEL. 



In that glad time before literature had burdened 
itself with the problems of modern life and society, 
and before essayists had conceived it necessary, in 
order to get themselves read, to write in a style that 
would have made Quintilian stare and gasp, and to 
startle their readers by roundly asserting that what- 
ever is is wrong and that what the world has so long 
held true and beautiful is in reality false and ugly, 
we used to take innocent delight in Ik Marvel's 
gentle utterances on "Dream Life," in his "Reveries 
of a Bachelor," and in his agricultural experiences 
at Edgewood. Before ultra-cynicism and super- 
sophistication became so much the fashion, we 
enjoyed, unabashed and unashamed, his charming 
pen-portrait of " A Good Wife," his peaceful medi- 
tations " over a wood fire " and " by a city gate," 
and his harmless pre-matrimonial theorizing on the 
subject of love, "whether " (in the words of Plotinus 
as quoted by Biu-ton) " it be a God, or a divell, or 
passion of the minde, or partly God, partly divell, 
partly passion." Those days are past; but it is 
comforting to note that there is still a considerable 
demand (as evidenced by abundant cheap reprints) 
for the two little books that first made " Ik Marvel " 



known to the world, and that will do more than all 
his subsequent works — now credited to Donald G. 
Mitchell — to keep his memory green. 

To young Mitchell's frail constitution, which could 
not endure the rigors of the law, on the study of 
which he had entered in New York, we owe his 
devotion to the manifestly far more congenial pur- 
suit of literature interspersed with farming and 
travel. Threatened men live long ; and so it was 
that the physically defective young writer, nursing 
his pulmonary weakness at first on his grandfather 
Woodbridge's farm at Salem, Connecticut, and later 
in Europe and on his own estate of Edgewood, lived 
to number his birthdays well into the eighties — 
being, in fact, when death overtook him the other 
day, not far from eighty-seven years old. This 
turning to excellent account of a need for fresh air 
and an unconfined country life was characteristic of 
all Mr. Mitchell's achievement. Familiarity with 
the soil and crops and farm animals led to a literary 
connection with the Albany "Cultivator" (now 
" The Country Gentleman "), and a journey to 
Europe in search of health in 1848 resulted in " The 
Battle Summer," an account of turbulent scenes in 
Paris during that season of revolution. A previous 
European visit had already supplied material for 
" Fresh Gleanings." For at least three of his books 
he did not have to stir beyond Edgewood to find 
material ; and that he could gain inspiration from 
his wood fire, his grate of burning coal, or even from 
his cigar ( which his " Aunt Tabithy " so cordially 
hated), the most popular of his books has made 
abundantly evident. His brief Venetian consulship 
he planned to put to literary use by collecting 
materials for a history of Venice ; but whether the 
shortness of his sojourn allowed him insufficient 
time for the needed study and research, or whether, 
as is far more likely, the writing of formal his- 
tory proved uncongenial to him, he never carried 
out his intention. Less profitable, therefore, in a 
literary way did this appointment prove than in the 
case of one of his successors in office a few years 
later, the author of " Venetian Life " and " Italian 
Journeys." 

In this passing notice of Mr. Mitchell's work as 
an author, reference should be made to his one 
novel, "Dr. Johns," the story of a New England 
country parsonage, which appeared originally in 
" The Atlantic Monthly," but which probably very 
few of this generation have read. The " Atlantic " 
stamp is warrant of literary excellence, but the story 
did not convince the world that its author was a 
great novelist. Neither did his much later essays 
in literary criticism show him to be a very original 
or very penetrating critic of others' work. " English 
Lands, Letters, and Kings " and " American Lands 
and Letters " are stimulating and highly readable, 
but hardly more than that. The collection of 
sketches entitled " Seven Stories with Basement 
and Attic " is drawn from the author-traveller's 
" plethoric little note books " of Em'opean wander- 
ings, three of the little narratives being French in 



8 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 1, 



theme, one Swiss, one Italian, and one Irish. 
Probably it is true that, as has been alleged, our 
young men would not care to write in this style to- 
day ; and probably it is also true that they could 
not if they wished to. 

The style and methods of Ik Marvel tend to recall 
Washington Irving ; they also remind one of George 
William Curtis as we see him in " Prue and I," 
and they more or less vividly bring back the days of 
Paulding, Halleck, Willis, Bryant, Bayard Taylor, 
and their fellow-craftsmen in letters. A precious 
link with the past has been severed, and the world 
of literature is left the poorer. Yet undoubtedly 
our loss is the less keenly felt from the fact that the 
dead author's best and most characteristic work was 
done half a century before he died. In fact it is 
sixty-one years since " Fresh Gleanings " made its 
appearance, and fifty-eight since the " Reveries " 
first delighted a wide circle of readers. Mr. 
Mitchell's place in American literature was so se- 
curely fixed long before his death that he might 
almost be said to have survived his fame — a not 
altogether enviable fate. 

Appropriate for quotation in any obituary notice 
of Ik Marvel are the subjoined sentences from his 
own " Dream Life." The passage occurs in the 
introductory chapter. 

" What is Reverie, and what are these Day-dreams, bat 
fleecy cloud-drifts that float eternally, and eternally change 
shapes, upon the great over-arching sky of thought ? You 
may seize the strong outlines that the passion breezes of to- 
day shall throw into their figures ; but to-morrow may 
breed a whirlwind that will chase swift, gigantic shadows 
over the heaven of your thought, and change the whole 
landscape of your life. 

" Dream-land will never be exhausted, until we enter the 
land of dreams ; and until, in ' shuffling off this mortal coil,' 
thought will become fact, and all facts will be only thought. 

" As it is, I can conceive no mood of mind more in keeping 
with what is to follow upon the grave, than those fancies 
which warp our frail hulks toward the ocean of the Infinite ; 
and that so sublimate the realities of this being, that they 
seem to belong to that shadowy realm, where every day's 
journey is leading.'' 

It may be a fanciful thought, but it seems not 
unfitting that the author of " Dream Life " and 
" Reveries of a Bachelor " and " Fudge Doings " 
should have chosen " Marvel " for a pseudonym. 
The very name is a protest against the nil admirari 
spirit, the blase cynicism, the unenthusiastic tem- 
perament of the worldly wise, which were so con- 
spicuously and so refreshingly lacking in Donald G. 
Mitchell. He felt warmly, and was not afraid to 
show his feeling; and for that we like him. 



CAS UA L COM MENT. 

Insufficient educational endowments give 
rise, every now and then, to startling and humiliat- 
ing comparisons. For example, the trustees of the 
University of Pennsylvania, deploring the unsub- 
stantial financial foundation on which that famous 
old institution of learning rests, call attention to the 



fact that the gi'eat and wealthy State of Pennsyl- 
vania — richer, several times over, than all New 
England — has in her educational history provided 
endowments for education that would, collectively, 
about suffice to build two modern battle-ships. And 
it is proposed to ask the legislature to make biennial 
grants of half a million until, with funds raised 
from other sources, the University shall have an 
endowment commensurate with its needs. That is 
all very well ; but we have a far better scheme to 
propose. Legislative purse-strings are inclined to 
tie themselves into hard knots when poor colleges 
and universities and state libraries, and other like 
beneficent institutions, come a-begging up the capitol 
steps. Now a sure and speedy financial return 
would accrue if all our leading universities would but 
suspend for a few years, or even for one year, those 
lesser activities that have to do with books and lec- 
tures and laboratories and examination-papers, and 
would give their undistracted attention to the larger 
interests of the football field and the baseball nine. 
By a carefully-planned and properly advertised 
series of inter-university football and baseball cham- 
pionship games, with reserved-seat and admission 
charges placed at a sufficiently high figure, the great 
sport-loving public could be made to endow all our 
higher institutions of learning, and everyone would 
have a grand good time in the process. On the 
morning after the late Harvard-Dartmouth contest 
on the gridiron at Cambridge, it was reported that 
forty thousand spectators were present. The priv- 
ilege of spectatorship cost about a dollar and a half — 
perhaps more if one occupied a favored position. If 
sixty thousand dollars, more or less, were to flow 
into the college treasury with every match game 
played on its campus, what would there be to pre- 
vent the speedy filling of that treasury ? Our solu- 
tion of what has so long been regarded as a g^ave 
problem is so simple and so satisfactory that we 
wonder it has not occurred to anyone before. But 
the greatest inventions are always the simplest. 
• • • 

World-languages to suit all tastes, unless 
one's taste is unreasonably exacting, have now been 
provided. Choice may be made from a long list of 
tongues, ingeniously and scientifically formed, and 
most delightfully free from exceptions. There are, 
for example, VolapUk, Lingua, Panroman, Inter- 
pretor, Esperanto, Ido, and Tutonish. This last 
ought to appeal irresistibly to Teutons and Anglo- 
Saxons, including, of course, Americans. Its in- 
ventor, one Elias Molee, is a Norwegian, and his aim 
has been to compound a sort of Anglo- Germanico- 
Hollando-Scandinavian compromise speech — a kind 
of North- European linguistic hash the scoffer may 
unkindly call it — for North-European use especially. 
He thinks his predecessors in the fascinating art of 
language-manufacture have been too ambitious : they 
have selected their ingx*edients predominantly from 
the romance languages and then tried to impose 
their latinized compound on Teutonic peoples, or 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



9 



they have proceeded the other way about. Mr. 
Molee is less ambitious : he gives us a tongue com- 
prehensible almost without study over a broad belt 
of two continents, and does not trouble himself un- 
duly with the rest of the world. But the rest of the 
world must be reckoned with. Why has it never 
occurred to anyone to develop the large possibilities 
of pigeon-English as an inter-continental, not to say 
an inter-hemispherical, medium of communication? 
Already it serves as a sort of linguistic bond between 
the white and the yellow races. Let the Mongols 
prevail on their neighbors the Slavs to start corre- 
spondence schools for the teaching of this simple, 
flexible, picturesque, and pleasing tongue; let the 
English avail themselves of their present cordial 
understanding with France to introduce the ancient 
and honored Anglo-Chinese commercial language 
into southern Europe ; let the colonies and depen- 
dencies of England and America extend and widen 
the sway of pigeon-English over all the rest of the 
habitable globe, — and very soon our observation, 
with extensive view, will see mankind, from China 
to Peru, discom-sing together in happy harmony and 
enjoying all but millennial blessings. 

• • • 

Lights of literature as viewed by contem- 
poraries have not always been of dazzling bright- 
ness. Often these stars in the literary firmament 
twinkled so feebly to the upturned telescope that it 
is hard to believe them the same as those luminous 
bodies now so resplendent to the naked eye. But 
occasionally an instance is found of a writer of 
genius whose genius received early and fuU recog- 
nition. From the English literary periodical entitled 
" The Author," which publishes monthly a " con- 
temporary criticism," it is pleasant to quote a few 
lines of "The Quarterly Review's" notice of 
"Poems by Alfred Tennyson, pp. 163, London, 
12mo, 1833." For lavish praise couched in some- 
what old-time phraseology, the review is really a 
masterpiece. "This is," says the reviewer, "as 
some of his marginal notes intimate, Mr. Tennyson's 
second appearance. By some strange chance we 
have never seen his first publication, which, if it at 
all resembles its younger brother, must be by this 
time so popular that any notice of it on our part 
would seem idle and presumptuous; but we gladly 
seize this opportunity of repairing an unintentional 
neglect, and of introducing to the admiration of our 
more sequestered readers a new prodigy of genius — 
another and a brighter star of that galaxy or milky 
way of poetry of which the lamented Keats was the 
harbinger. . . . We have to offer Mr. Tennyson 
our tribute of immingled approbation, and it is very 
agreeable to us, as well as to our readers, that our 
present task will be little more than the selection, 
for their delight, of a few specimens of Mr. Tenny- 
son's singular genius, and the venturing to point 
out, now and then, the peculiar brilliancy of some 
of the gems that irradiate his poetical crown." 
When sugar and honey of this sort are offered by a 



Quarterly Reviewer to a young poet of only twenty- 
four, surely that young poet is either more or less 
than human if he is not straightway convinced that 
this world we live in is the very best possible world. 

A PUBLIC LIBRARY OF PURE FICTION that is, 

of nothing but fiction, pure or impure — in its own 
special building, and with its own trained librarian 
and attendants, is a development that seems to Dr. 
Louis N. Wilson, librarian of Clark University, not 
only worth serious consideration, but in a high de- 
gree desirable. "The tendency among librarians," 
he is reported as saying, "as among other edu- 
cational institutions to-day, is to specialize, and I 
would give the fiction library full recognition. . . . 
With properly trained attendants in this field it 
would be possible to classify fiction, and even to paste 
in each volume a typewritten list of other books deal- 
ing with similar subjects to be found in the library. 
Thus historical novels would contain a list of the 
best histories of the countries referred to, or biog- 
raphies of the characters mentioned, or histories of 
battles, and so on." And let us also suggest that 
psychological novels might contain a complete bib- 
liography of the literature of psychology in all 
languages, and sociological novels might contain a 
catalogue of the social-science studies of Carey and 
Maine and Spencer and their thousand and one pre- 
decessors and successors, and religious novels might 
have a manuscript appendix giving the names of 
especially entertaining works in dogmatic theology 
and theological controversy. But do we really wish 
to take our pleasure so seriously as all that, Anglo- 
Saxons though most of us are? The systematic 
study of English prose fiction as a university elective 
somehow has an element almost — perhaps not quite 
— of absurdity in it, and the solemn dedication of a 
library building to the art of the story-writer would 
lack a certain element of dignity. Novel-reading 
is by no means to be frowned down or discouraged, 
but it will probably continue to flourish in the future, 
as it has flourished in the past, without elaborate 
bibliographical aids or a specially designed architec- 
tural environment. , , . 

The cruelty of biographers in making mer- 
chantable copy out of those modestly shrinking but 
irresistibly fascinating men and women of mark who 
have professed a vehement unwillingness to be biog- 
raphized (the word is not in the dictionary, but it 
ought to be), will manifest itself as long as biography 
continues to be one of the most attractive and best 
selling forms of literary composition, as well as one 
of the easiest for the average writer to supply in a 
tolerably acceptable fashion. The more urgently a 
great man begs that the memory of him may be 
interred with his bones, the more insistently will the 
greedy and curious public demand the publication of 
his life, while those who would fain see themselves 
go down to posterity in two volumes octavo (in the 
920-class of Mr. Dewey's decimal system) are nearly 
always destined to speedy oblivion. Sir Leslie Stephen 



10 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 1, 



publicly expressed his disinclination to be made the 
subject of a biography, and his published life was 
one of the best and most popular books of the season. 
Mr. Whistler, in a fragment of autobiography writ- 
ten twelve years ago, made a picturesque struggle 
against his all-too-probable fate. " Determined," he 
declares, "that no mendacious scamp shall tell the 
foolish truths about me when centuries have gone by, 
and anxiety no longer pulls at the pen of the ' pupil' 
who would sell the soul of his master, I now proceed 
to take the wind out of such speculator by imme- 
diately furnishing myself the fiction of my own biog- 
raphy, which shall remain and is the story of my 
life." And now, as inevitable sequel to the Pennell 
biography of the dead artist, his sister-in-law, who is 
also his sole executrix and residuary legatee, writes 
to the London " Times " a lively letter of protest, 
which will of course defeat its own purpose by increas- 
ing the sale of the life of the modest Mr. Whistler. 
• • • 
The Furness Variorum Shakespeare, begun 
thirty-seven years ago with the issue of " Romeo and 
Juliet," has advanced to the sixteenth volume, 
" Richard the Third "; but with this latest publica- 
tion the editorship passes from Dr. Horace Howard 
Furness to his son, Mr. Horace Howard Furness, Jr., 
who, born and bred in an atmosphere of Shake- 
spearean studies, and early catching the Shakespeare 
enthusiasm that has possessed his father ever since 
the latter, at fourteen years of age, heard Fanny 
Kemble in one of her Shakespeare readings, steps 
naturally into the place voluntarily vacated by his 
father, and undertakes to carry to completion the 
great work now nearly half finished. The delights 
rather than the drudgery of such work as this will 
present themselves to the imagination of most 
readers in handling these inviting volumes ; but that 
the task entails a vast deal of downright hard work 
admits of no question. If an editor has to collate 
the eight quarto and four folio editions of a play, 
besides all the more important later editions, and 
is obliged to read perhaps two or three hundred 
volumes containing commentaries on or references 
to the play, then a variorum editorship becomes no 
sinecure. To verify a single quotation perhaps the 
better part of a library has to be ransacked. In 
tracing to its exact source one line quoted by Knight 
as illustrating a passage in " Macbeth," Mr. Furness 
read twenty-seven of Beaumont and Fletcher's 
plays. A work in which a single footnote of two 
lines may represent a month's toil is surely a work 
to be viewed with respect. The completion of the 
Furness Variorum Shakespeare will be an achieve- 
ment of which American scholarship may well be 
proud. . , . 

Hungarian impressions of American cul- 
ture, as well as of some things in America not 
coming under the head of culture, are readably 
presented by Monseigneur Count Vaya de Vaya and 
Luskod, who has paid two visits to our shores and 
has caught more than a passing glimpse of the genus 



homo Americamis in his native habitat. Like most 
foreigners who have paid us the compliment of a 
"write-up" — but not exactly like Mrs. TroUope and 
Charles Dickens — he expresses himself as pleased 
with what he has seen. Standing, for example, in 
Copley Square, Boston, he was stimulated and edified 
by those two monuments to letters and art, the Boston 
Public Library and the Museum of Fine Arts. They 
are, to his thinking, unique among their kind and 
most forcibly expressive of the mental qualities of 
the cultured Bostonian. After extended observation 
and comparison, the courteous count reaches the 
conclusion that our American Athens is still pre- 
eminently the city of culture, while New York rep- 
resents wealth, and Chicago commercial activity. 
Furthermore — and perhaps here he lays on the 
honey with a trowel — '' Bostonians are always 
easily recognizable. They have an immistakable 
stamp, entirely their own, which, when travelling 
abroad, distinguishes them at once as citizens of 
New England. Being reserved by nature, it is per- 
haps not always easy to get to know them intimately ; 
but one cannot come in contact with them without 
being conscious of their innate refinement." This 
praise is, to be sure, sectional and partial ; but if, as 
has been seriously maintained, Boston is not so much 
a geographical location as it is a state of mind, what 
is to prevent the country at large from meriting 
and appropriating the Hungarian count's graceful 
encomium ? 

Thumb-prints for signatures are the latest 
things in dactylology as practised in Cheyenne, 
in far-off Wyoming. Readers will remember the 
curious experiments and studies in finger-prints 
conducted by that original genius and shrewd phil- 
osopher, "Pudd'n Head Wilson." In Cheyenne, 
where foreigners of almost every known race and 
color are thicker than blackberries, and where every 
Pole or Bohemian or Lithuanian is as like to his 
fellow Pole or Bohemian or Lithuanian as is one 
blackberry to another, and where also few of these 
swarming sons of toil are expert with the pen, the 
bank in which many of them deposit their savings 
has taken a hint from Mark Twain's book and 
adopted a system of thumb-print signatures that is 
said to give satisfaction to all concerned. Instead 
of written names in every conceivable kind of 
alphabet and degree of illegibility, the immigrant 
depositors leave on file, not their mark, but their 
smudge — the impression made by touching the 
ball of the thumb (the right thumb, presumably) to 
an inked pad and then pressing it against a sheet 
of paper. These impressions — no two alike, and 
defying the most skilful forger — are to be seen 
also as signatures to checks, and so adept has the 
assistant cashier become in reading them that 
he can recognize a great number without referring 
to the record. Which all goes to prove that not 
only is there many a true word spoken in jest, but 
also many a useful and practical thought written in 
fiction. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



11 



A children's story-hour conducted by chil- 
dren is the latest thing in library work for the 
little ones. At the Pratt Institute Free Library, 
where three hours on as many days of each week 
are devoted to story-telling, "the most interesting 
development of the Friday evening story hour " (as 
the Librarian writes in her current Report) "was the 
establishment of two branches of the Junior Story 
Tellers' League, one for the boys of the Friday 
evening story hour and one for the girls. These 
meet on alternate Fridays after the regular story, 
and the children take entire charge of the proceed- 
ings, presiding, deciding, and telling stories. The 
only restriction is that they must let Miss Tyler know 
in advance what stories are to be told. No boy or 
girl has ever tried to 'be funny,' to tell a sUly story, or 
in any way to disturb the meetings. . . . The club 
meetings have averaged twenty-five [in attendance]. 
The stories chosen have often been those already 
told in the regular story hour, and the retelling by 
a boy or girl is especially valuable to the story teller. 
The discipline, the self-control, even the amateur elec- 
tioneering, have all been good for the children. One 
boy who wanted the presidency attempted to smooth 
the way to this important office by largess of candy, 
but he was ignominiously defeated — a real triumph 
of civic righteousness." The children's story-hour, 
for, by, and of the children, is certainly less open to 
some of Mr. Dana's recent objections than the chil- 
dren's hour conducted by library assistants, j j- 

• • ■ 

State certification of librarians, like the 
similar certification of doctors and lawyers, of pilots 
and chauffeurs, and of numerous other more or less 
exalted semi-public officials, has much to recommend 
it. At a recent meeting of the Ohio Library Asso- 
ciation the committee on legislation brought to the 
attention of the assembled library workers a bill that 
it had draughted and that contained the following 
provisions : The appointment of a state board of 
examiners of would-be librarians, the board to con- 
sist of five members, each member to serve five years 
and to receive his appointment from the state board 
of library commissioners. The examiners are to be 
all librarians in good and regular standing, and at 
least two of them must be women. Not fewer than 
two examinations shall be held each year, and, if 
possible, simultaneously in different parts of the state. 
Certificates shall be for a term of years, or for life 
to such as are found duly qualified. Library experi- 
ence and also attendance at a library school shall 
receive credit as the examiners may determine. Other 
minor provisions follow in some detail. All this is 
well, and the public library spirit again shows itself 
to be active in Ohio, greatly to Ohio's credit. We 
may rest assured that the public library which once 
appointed as its librarian the lowest bidder in a com- 
petition for the combined librarianship and janitor- 
ship was not an Ohio public library ; nor will any 
such system of appointment ever find favor in that 
enlightened commonwealth. 



Letting in the light on the foul spots of 
putridity and corruption is the first step toward a 
restoration of cleanness and sweetness and health. 
A new departure in journalism has been taken by 
San Francisco, that city of so wide and so unen- 
viable a notoriety at the present moment. The 
" Municipal Record " shrinks not from revealing to 
the public all that is being done or left undone in 
the various departments of the city government. 
Every meeting of an official body is reported, awards 
of contracts are published, the names and salaries of 
new employees are made known. Spades are called 
spades, and graft is called graft. The " Record " 
was established in response to repeated and by no 
means unnatural demands from many quarters for 
such an organ of municipal publicity and frankness. 
An unvarnished, undistorted account of govern- 
mental activities was insisted upon. " Thus it may 
be," runs the plain and concise announcement, 
" that the publicity of such information may serve 
to stimulate the city's servants to extra endeavor, and 
possibly to incite appreciation by the citizen of all 
actions by the officials that are in any way commend- 
able." Some such publication in every considerable 
city might well be started, and that too without 
waiting for the very strong and rather peculiar 
incentives that have operated in San Francisco. 
• • ■ 

A HUSKY YOUNG UNIVERSITY (if One may use 
Western slang to describe a Western institution) is 
the twenty-five-year-old University of Texas, which 
recently celebrated its quarter-centennial by inau- 
gurating a new president, dedicating a new law 
building, holding a barbecue (of a Texas steer, 
undoubtedly), and indulging in a football game. 
These events occupied Thanksgiving Day and the 
day before, and were witnessed by a notable gath- 
ering of persons prominent in educational work. 
Sidney Edward Mezes, Ph.D., is the newly installed 
head of the University, and he was inducted into 
office with services in harmony with the time and 
place. Important, indeed, is the institution that 
stands at the head of the educational system of a 
State larger in territory than any European country 
except Russia, and destined in the not distant future 
to support a large population. But before that day 
arrives the recently suggested division of this vast 
territory into two or more States is likely to have 
been accomplished. 



COMMUNICA TION. 



WHISTLER'S PORTRAIT OF HIS MOTHER. 
(To the Editor of The Dial.) 
In the article ou Modern Painting, page 340 of the 
November 16 number of The Dial, Whistler's portrait 
of his mother is said to hang in the Louvre. It is not 
there, but in the Luxembourg. No paintings find place 
in the Louvre until ten years after the death of the 
artist who produces them. 

Lydia Avery Coonley Ward. 
Dresden, Germany, December 4, 1908. 



12 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 1, 



[efo ^00ks. 



A Great Actor's Biography.* 

" Perhaps the saddest spot in the sad life of 
the actor," wrote Richard Mansfield, "is to be 
forgotten. Great paintings live to commem- 
orate great painters ; the statues of sculptors 
are their monuments ; and books are the in- 
scriptions of authors. But who shall say, when 
this generation has passed away, how Yorick 
played? When the curtain has fallen for the 
last time, and only the unseen spirit hovers in 
the wings, what book will speak of all the mum- 
mer did and suffered in his time ? " 

Mr. Paul Wilstach's biography of Mansfield 
goes far toward preserving our recollection of 
his consummate art, and gives us, besides, a 
faithful portrait of Mansfield the man — a por- 
trait that does its distinguished original ample 
justice, without concealing those temperamental 
faults that marred his character. Taken as a 
whole, it is the most satisfying biography of a 
player of which the present reviewer has knowl- 
edge. The book itself, with its wealth of illus- 
trations and its dignified binding, its clear type 
and fine paper, compels a word of favorable 
comment. 

Richard Mansfield's father was Maurice Mans- 
field, a London wine merchant; his mother, a 
famous singer, Erminia Rudersdorff. Richard, 
their third child, was born on the 24th of May, 
1857. The boy's public life began in his fourth 
year. His mother was dressing for a concert 
at the Crystal Palace. Refusals and threats 
only stimulated Richard's determination to 
accompany her. Finally, the imperious mother 
yielded to the imperious boy. He was hastily 
dressed in his best black velvet skirt and coat, 
a wide embroidered collar falling over his 
shoulders, and together they rattled away in 
her carriage. His mother's dressing room, the 
vastness of the stage, the lights, the strange 
noises and confusion, frightened the child and 
he clung close to his mother. 

" When the stage manager came to the door to say 
that Madame's turn had arrived, and that the orchestra 
was waiting, she strode majestically forth, as was her 
custom, from her own room straight to the centre of the 
stage. Her appearance was greeted hj a roar of ap- 
plause, which she acknowledged with queenly bows. 
She did not observe a subdued ripple of laughter, how- 
ever, and signalled the conductor to begin. The music 
quieted the applause, but it did not hush the increasing 
titter, of which she soon became painfully conscious. 

* Richard Mansfield : The Man and the Actor. By Paul 
Wilstach. Illustrated. New York: Charles Scribner's Sons. 



Glancing about to see what could be the occasion, she 
discovered Richie, beside but somewhat behind her, 
frightened to stone, but firmly clutching the hem of her 
long train which his little hands had seized as she swept 
away from him into the presence of the audience." 

Richard's father died in 1861. His mother's 
engagements in the first opera houses of Great 
Britain and Europe continued. As most of her 
time was spent upon the continent, it was 
decided that the children should be sent to Jena. 
There Richard and his brother Felix attended a 
private school, kept by a Professor Zenker, a 
famous master. Early in his school career 
Richard painted one of the class-room doors a 
vivid green, and in the high pride of his achieve- 
ment signed his initials to his handiwork. The 
boy spent two years at the school Am Graben ; 
then two years at Paul Vodos's school in the 
little town of Yvredon, in Switzerland ; and 
later at Bourbourg, France. Early in 1869 he 
entered on the experience which in after years 
remained clearest as a retrospect of boyhood. 
He was sent to Derby School. Here he was 
distinguished in the athletic sports of the period, 
but not as a student ; among the boys he was 
known as " Cork " Mansfield, — perhaps because 
of his remarkable feats as a swimmer. He did, 
however, become the star performer among the 
schoolboys on " Speech Day," acting his first 
role — Scapin, in Moliere's " Les Fourberies de 
Sea pin " — during his first year at the school. 
In the following year he appeared, on the same 
occasion, as Shylock ; and the next year's Speech 
Day witnessed young Mansfield's acting in a 
German, a French, and three English scenes, — 
and taking a leading part in each. 

In the spring of the following year (1872) 
he left Derby. It was his mother's wish that 
he should enter Oxford or Cambridge ; but the 
World's Peace Jubilee in Boston offered her 
opportunities she could not neglect. These 
ripened into attractive offers to make Boston 
her future home ; and, this course being decided 
upon, the children were brought to America, 
and Madame Rudersdorff s rooms in the Hotel 
Boyleston, and her studio, became one of the 
artistic centres of the city, to which artists from 
the four quarters of the globe were attracted as 
certainly as they visited Boston in the course of 
their American tours. For two years young 
Mansfield knew the drudgery of a desk in the 
great Washington Street store founded by Eben 
D. Jordan. It was the young man's duty to 
translate letters destined for or received from 
France, Germany, and Italy ; he exercised his 
originality also upon advertisements for the 
firm. From such prosaic details Richard must 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



13 



have escaped eagerly at night to the brilliance 
of the company always gathered in his mother's 
rooms. 

Mr. Wilstach gives us an amusing reminis- 
cence of this period, from the recollections of 
Mrs. Julia Ward Howe. 

" I remember [Mrs. Howe is quoted as saying] a 
surprise party Madame Rudersdoff gave on Richie's 
birthday. They were nearly all young people present 
excepting myself. It was not a surprise party in the 
ordinary sense, but you will understand when I tell you. 
In those days we were continually invited to meet dis- 
tinguished musical artists at Madame Rudersdorff's 
home. She provided unsparingly as a hostess; she was 
really queenly in her hospitality. Hence her invitations 
were snapped up in every quarter. On this occasion we 
were invited to meet a newly arrived prima-donna, — I 
forget her name. The hostess and her distinguished 
guest received together. I remember her as if it were 
yesterday. She was youthful in appearance; uncom- 
monly modest in demeanor. She wore a red and white 
silk dress with a prodigiously long train, and had many 
jewels and an abundance of thick wavy dark hair which 
was the admiration of everyone. Some of us were put 
to it to talk to her, for she spoke only the European 
languages. The announcement finally that the great 
prima donna would sing produced an expectant silence. 
We were all struck by the phenomenal range of her 
voice. She seemed to be able to sing with equal facility 
a soft, dark contralto, or a silvery soprano, capping off 
with an octave in falsetto. After responding to several 
encores, she at length astounded us all by lifting off her 
towering coiffure and announcing imaffectedly : ' I'm 
tired of this, mother. Let's cut the birthday cake.' It 
was Richie. He and his mother had conspired in the 
surprise party." 

Toward the end of his fourth year in Boston, 
Richard became the dramatic and musical critic 
of a feeble daily newspaper, " The News." 
When he resigned, he told the editor it was 
" impossible to criticise for a man who was the 
friend of so many bad actors." 

The pyrotechnical temper of Madame Ruders- 
dorff , and the gradual development of an explo- 
sive capacity on his own part, led eventually 
(1875) to the selection of separate quarters for 
the yoimg bachelor — a modest room at 23 
Beacon Street. Here he disposed his few 
pieces of furniture, bought a piano, and, since 
his allowance did not permit the purchase of 
many pictures, he drew and painted them on the 
walls himself. Painting was supposed to be his 
metier at this time ; his mother gave him an 
allowance ; the position in Mr. Jordan's office 
was given up, and Richard's friends came for- 
ward at intervals to buy his pictures. " But," 
he afterward explained, " when I had sold 
pictures to all my friends, I discovered I had 
no friends." Exhausted credit soon closed 
various streets to him. A knock at his door 
became the sure precursor of an insistent dun. 



Someone suggested that he give lessons in the 
languages he knew so familiarly. For a month 
he had a fashionable class of young ladies who 
were taught French, Italian, or German, and 
were, moreover, stayed with tea and comforted 
with music. At the end of the month the parents 
of the young ladies remitted promptly, and 
Richard had a spread in his studio remembered 
to this day. Two days later he was hungry and 
penniless. 

The Sock and Buskin Club, which had been 
organized in 1875 by Mansfield and some of his 
friends, was now thought of, and the young men 
gave a performance of Robertson's " School." 
It was so successful that Mansfield, who had 
taken the part of Beau Farintosh, announced to 
his friends that for the advantage of himself and 
his creditors he proposed to give a benefit to 
himself. Boston's artistic set had its curiosity 
piqued by learning of " An Entertainment to 
be given at Union Hall, on Thursday evening, 
June 1st, by Mr. Vincent Crummels, on the 
Singers and Actors of the Day." It was whis- 
pered about that Crummels was no other than 
the famous Madame Rudersdorff's son Richard 
Mansfield. Of course the hall was crowded. 
With wonderful effrontery, Mansfield occupied 
the entire evening with imitations of all the 
famous actors and singers known to his audience 
— including his own mother, who witnessed the 
burlesque from her box, and laughed as heartily 
as anyone. 

Early in 1877, with the promise of a contin- 
uance of his mother's allowance, Richard Mans- 
field returned to England, to study drawing 
and painting. But brush and palette were not 
for him. His pocket-book was soon flat — the 
sooner, perhaps, because of the extension of his 
acquaintance with the London bohemians. His 
chambers became one of the popular rallying 
points. For such evenings his scanty allow- 
ance forced him to pay the penalty of abstinence 
and exhausted credit. By April he was over- 
joyed to accept an offer of eight pounds a week 
in the German Reed Entertainments. His 
friends crowded St. George "s Hall for his first 
appearance. He had a small role in the 
comedietta which opened the evening ; later, he 
was expected to occupy the stage for an hour 
by himself. When his time came, he sat down 
at the piano and fainted dead away. He had 
not eaten for three days. Meanwhile, Madame 
Rudersdorff , in Boston, had learned that her son 
had given a few entertainments in English coun- 
try homes for pay. She was superb in her wrath ; 
she would at once cut off his allowance. And 



14 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. I, 



she did, punctually, in a letter which, " beginning 
in very plain English, emphasized her resent- 
ment in French, German, and Italian, and ended 
in Russian, with a reserve of bitter denuncia- 
tion, but no more languages to express it in." 
The struggle of Mansfield's life began now 
in earnest. Long afterward, when at the 
meridian of his fame, he told the story, 

" For years I went home to my little room, if fortu- 
nately I had one, and perhaps a tallow dip was stuck in 
the neck of a bottle, and I was fortunate if I had some- 
thing to cook for myself over a fire, if I had a fire. 
That was my life. When night came I wandered about 
the streets of London, and if I had a pemiy 1 invested 
it in a baked potato, from the baked potato man on the 
corner. I would put these hot potatoes in my pockets, 
and after I had warmed my hands I would swallow the 
potato. That is the truth." 

The sale of an occasional picture, or the accept- 
ance of a story or a poem by a magazine, were 
the sources of his scanty income. He strove to 
keep his appearance respectable in order to ac- 
cept fortuitous social invitations for the sake of 
the cold collations without which he would have 
gone hungry. Often he stayed in bed and slept 
in order to forget the hunger of the hours of 
wakefulness. Food seen through the windows 
of bakeries and restaurants seemed to him the 
most beautiful sight in the world. 

The year 1878 found him, with a second or 
third rate company, playing the role of Sir 
Joseph Porter, K.C.B., in " Pinafore," in the 
smaller towns of England, Scotland, and Wales. 
His salary was three pounds weekly ; and when 
he demanded an additional six shillings, he was 
cut adrift, and returned to London in desperate 
straits. The turning point of his career was 
accompanied, as he told it, by a remarkable 
experience. 

" This was the condition of affairs when a strange 
happening befell me. Retiring for the night in a per- 
fectly hopeless frame of mind, I fell into a troubled 
sleep, and dreamed dreams. Finally, toward morning, 
this fantasy came to me. I seemed in my disturbed 
sleep to hear a cab drive up to the door as if in a great 
hurry. There was a knock, and in my dream I opened 
the door and found D'Oyly Carte's yellow-haired secre- 
tary standing outside. He exclaimed : ' Can you pack 
up and catch the train in ten minutes to rejoin the com- 
pany? ' * I can,' was the dreamland reply. There 
seemed to be a rushing about, while I swept a few 
things into my bag ; then the cab door was slammed, 
and we were off to the station. This was all a dream. 
But here is the inexplicable denouement. The dream 
was so vivid and startling that I immediately awoke 
with a strange, uncanny sensation, and sprang to my 
feet. It was six o'clock, and only bare and gloomy 
surroundings met my eye. On a chair rested my 
travelling bag; and through some impulse that I could 
not explam at the time, and cannot account for now, I 
picked it up and hurriedly swept into it a few articles 



that had escaped the pawn-shop. It did not take long 
to complete my toilet, and then I sat down to think. 
Presently, when I had reached the extreme point of de- 
jection, a cab rattled up, there was a knock, and there 
stood D'Oyly Carte's secretary, just as I saw him in my 
dreams. He seemed to be in a great flurry, and cried 
out, ' Can you pack up and reach the station in ten min- 
utes to rejoin the company ? ' 'I can,' said I, calmly, 
pointing to my bag, ' for I was expecting you.' The 
man was a little startled by this seemingly strange re- 
mark, but bundled me into the cab without further ado, 
and we hurried away to the station exactly in accord 
with my dream. That was the beginning of a long 
engagement; and although I have known hard times 
since, it was the turning-point in my career." 

For more than three years Mansfield played 
in minor opera and minor comedy ; engagements 
being now the rule rather than the exception. 
He received the news of his mother's death, and 
of her will, which made him her sole heir but 
contained the capricious proviso that no portion 
of the inheritance should pass into his hands so 
long as he remained unmarried. Then, one night 
in the spring of 1882, in his dressing-room, 
Mansfield heard a familiar voice ; his old friend 
Eben Jordan of Boston grasped his hand, and 
that night persuaded him to return to America. 
It was on the night of January 11, 1883, that 
Mansfield played Baron Chevrial for the first 
time, and woke on the following morning famous. 
There were many ups and downs in the years that 
followed, but " Cork " Mansfield sustained the 
qualities of his cognomen. 

For most of us, the remaining pages of Mr. 
Wilstach's book, which are devoted to Mans- 
field the actor, will stimulate personal reminis- 
cences of the gifted artist. " Prince Karl," 
" Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde," " Richard III.," 
" Beau Brummel," " Don Juan," " Monsieur 
Beaucaire," '• Cyrano de Bergerac," " Arthur 
Dimmesdale," " Shylock," " Captain Blunt- 
sehli," " Dick Dudgeon," " Alceste," " King 
Henry v.," "Peer Gynt," — these names repre- 
sent the story of the wonderful years, wonderful 
in the development of his own genius as an actor, 
and wonderful in the development of his equally 
marvellous breadth of view and mastery of detail 
as stage manager and producer. Mr, Wilstach, 
with intimate personal knowledge of his subject, 
with every facility in the way of materials at his 
command, and with a discriminating judgment 
and taste that qualify him perfectly for the task, 
gives us so true a picture of the actor in each 
several part that he essayed as makes him fairly 
live again before our eyes. 

Of Mansfield the man, Mr. Wilstach speaks 
apparently with equal fidelity to truth. He 
does not seek to ignore, or even to condone, those 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



15 



outbursts of temper which robbed Mansfield of 
the affection of American playgoers, however 
they might yield him their admiration. Mr. 
Wdstach says : 

" Most of his outbursts were the outbursts of nervous 
despair. At times before acting a new role there were 
moments when his confidence appeared to desert him, 
and he would break down entirely. Then he would toss 
away his part and pace the stage in yoluble agony, 
ieclaring it would be impossible to give the production ; 
everything and everybody, including the play and him- 
self, were beyond hope ; the opening must be postponed, 
etc., etc. At such moments no one had influence with 
him but his gentle wife. With soft words of agreement, 
the tender terms with which a mother would propitiate 
a child, she would calm the spirit of this mighty child, 
and in five minutes have him quieted, comforted, and 
back at work again." 

To say to a workman " You're discharged I " 
meant nothing from Mansfield more than a 
reproof. " It was the habit of exaggerated 
words," according to the biographer. His 
unfailing patience and gentleness during the 
rehearsals of " Ivan the Terrible " were a matter 
of ominous comment among the company. He 
seemed, says our author, to be holding himself 
under a strain which would break him. This 
endured until the dress rehearsal, which passed 
swimmingly up to the fourth act. " There, 
in the passionate confession scene, the tricky 
lines slipped, and with them slipped his seK- 
possession. There were five minutes of realis- 
tically improvised Tzar Ivan before he settled 
down, but the burst was welcomed by everyone. 
An old-timer of fourteen years in the company 
said : ' I was afraid for him. And I was afraid 
for this piece. It seemed as if he hadn't blown 
in the trade-mark. But it's all right now.' " 

« The evolution of a character in Mansfield's mind 
remained unexplained. He retired mto what Pater 
called 'mystic isolation.' Like Rossetti, he became 
' a racked and tortured medium.' But when he came 
to rehearsal, even to the first, it was with full possession 
of the new character, just as later, when he went on the 
stage to give the character to the audience, it had full 
possession of him. His performance of a role — even 
of those which he retamed in his repertoire from his 
early successes — whether in comedy or tragedy, was to 
him a sacred work, almost sacramental. He was first 
in the theater, never less than two and sometimes three 
hours before his first entrance. This time he spent in 
the seclusion of his dressing-room. But the preparation 
did not begin there. In the afternoon he took a long 
walk. When he returned he would see no visitors, none 
of his household, and his servants attended him in 
silence. He ate a light repast at five o'clock, with a 
book for company at table. Then he retired to his own 
apartment for a short nap and a bath, and rode away in 
his unbroken silence to the theater. And so into the 
dressing-room. When the call came for his entrance, 
and he emerged from his room, a metamorphosis had 
taken place. It was not the actor who went upon the 



scene, it was the character. By some process — and it 
has been called self-hypnotism ^ he became the person 
he was playing. He carried the manner to and from 
and into his dressing-room. He acted the role all the 
evening on and off the scene, and it fell from him only 
as he put aside the trappings and emerged from the 
dressing-room his own self, bound for home." 

Mr. Wilstach gives some delightful pictures 
of Mr. Mansfield's home-life, with his charming 
and talented wife (Miss Beatrice Cameron), 
and his little son, George Gibbs Mansfield. 
A number of letters to this little chap from his 
father are given, and they alone are worth the 
price of the book. Mr. Wilstach and his pub- 
lishers, and the family of Mr. Mansfield, and 
all who loved or admired him, may be con- 
gratulated in all sincerity upon the appearance 
of this really notable biography. 

MuNSON Aldrich Havens. 



The Quest of the Ideai^ Democracy.* 

We need a word that should stand in the 
same relation to amicus as socialism to socius, 
a word that all readers might approach without 
bias or nervousness. Socialism was an ideal 
name for a theory and system of political organ- 
ization based on comradeship and cooperation ; 
but strange perversions and confusions abroad 
and certain disagreeable events in our own 
country have brought it into unfortunate dis- 
repute. Fellowship might have been found 
adequate, had it not been for established 
connotations and a flavor of the archaistic. 
Collectivism and Communism are too cold. 
Brotherhood suggests too close an intimacy ; 
and it also carries with it a certain disturbing 
echo from the French Revolution. The Society 
of Friends would be an almost perfect designa- 
tion of the ideal state in question, were it not 
already appropriated by an amiable religious 
denomination. As it is, we see no other alterna- 
tive than the adoption of a new word. Thereby 
we should be freed from the risk of repelling our 
more conservative readers, and could describe 
Mr. Dickinson's latest volume as a dialogue on 
the new term ; for under " Justice and Liberty" 
he has given us a delightful interchange of views 
on some of the questions we commonly find 
emphasized by socialistic writers. 

" If every man thought it his duty to think 
freely and trouble his neighbor with his thoughts 
(which is an essential part of free-thinking), it 
would make wild work in the world," sermonizes 

• Justice AND Liberty. A Political Dialogue. By G. Lowes 
Dickinson. New York : The McClure Co. 



16 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 1, 



the irrepressible Dean of St. Patrick's ; and it is 
probably true. The question is whether there 
is not need of " wild work " in some quarters. 
And whatever else may be said of the earnest 
socialist, or the intellectual " perplexed inquirer 
socialistically inclined," he at least promotes 
thought. It is always easy to demolish certain 
features of advanced collectivism ; it is never 
quite possible to destroy the ideal of fellowship 
as cherished by thinking men like William 
Morris or the central speaker in the volume 
before us. There is something appealing in 
the cry, " We open the gates of the Temple of 
Humanity; make yourselves clean that you 
may enter in." There is a genuine ring in the 
challenge, " To unseat things from the saddle of 
destiny and to seat there the human soul." 

Nor does the cause stand still. To-day we 
are a little less sure than yesterday that the 
stimulus of self-interest is as fundamental in 
economic life as the law of gravitation in the 
physical world. Just now we are set thinking 
by a comparison of the most active quarter of 
a century in Mr. Rockefeller's career with the 
twenty-four years covered by Lord Cromer's 
unremitting efforts on behalf of the fellaheen of 
Egypt. There is some evidence for the validity 
of such a stimulus as good citizenship, or love 
of one's fellow creatures. Again, we suspect 
rather frequently that the present arrangements 
as to property may not be as final as the course 
of the earth about the sun. With reference 
to marriage, hardy souls like Galton will even 
point out that mating and procreation are at 
least as important as gambling or some other 
subjects of legislation ; and that there is a pos- 
sibility of improving the quality of the popxda- 
tion. A few of the most daring go so far as 
to dream that marriage might be more happy ; 
and one of them in his plea actually adduces 
the reports of our Illinois divorce courts. As 
to social classes, many Englishmen and most 
Americans have rejected the hierarchic view 
that God placed men in wisely ordered ranks 
and there they ought to remain in outward sub- 
mission and even inward gratitude. Because 
our institutions are an inheritance from the 
past, we no longer believe they are incapable 
of improvement. In short, there is a growing 
recognition of the obvious fact, albeit so long 
and stubbornly disregarded, that human nature 
is " a Being in perpetual transformation." In 
man's struggle up the endless steeps of the 
ages, he comes now and then to a plateau that 
appears to the more short-sighted climbers to 
be the final height, or at worst a fair dwelling 



place of reality not to be hazarded for distant 
goals, seen only in barest outline and often lost 
in cloud. Then the comfortable loiterers are 
either guided upward by the seer with the torch 
of the ideal, or driven reluctantly onward by the 
less fortunate of their feUows, whose cry is no 
less bitter than blind. And between these two 
forces, the reasonable appeal of the leader and 
the unreasoning impulse of the luckless throng, 
it is probable that for the future we shall give 
good heed to the problem of better social con- 
ditions. 

But we must return to our volume, — although 
we have not wandered so far as might be sup- 
posed. In the course of his dialogue, Mr. 
Dickinson treats such topics as Forms of Society, 
the Institution of Marriage, the Institution of 
Property, Government, the "Spirit" of the 
communities under consideration, naturally with 
various subdi^'^sions and incidental topics in- 
evitably suggested by these general subjects. 
Then toward the close we have some rather 
impassioned but orderly passages on " The 
Importance of Political Ideals as Guides to 
Practice " and " The Relations of Ideals to 
Facts." Such a cold summary is of course en- 
tirely misleading. The effectiveness, the justi- 
fication of the volume must depend on the 
winning method of treatment in the dialogue 
form. 

Sir John Harrington, a frankly aristocratic 
gentleman of leisure, we remember from " A 
Modern Symposium "; and Henry Martin, an 
idealizing professor, we recall from the same 
volume and " The Meaning of Good " as well. 
The third sharer in the discussion is Charles 
Stuart, a banker of broad experience, who keeps 
his feet stoutly on the earth. "Never mind 
Plato and Aristotle I Modern philosophers are 
bad enough without dragging in the ancients at 
every point." Or, " I am learning from this 
conversation that an ideal standpoint is one from 
which everything is seen out of proportion." 
Stuart and Harrington find the Professor in one 
of his favorite haunts, recalling in spirit rather 
than by topographical detail the scene of the 
" Phaedrus." " I love the sound and sight of 
running water, the great green slopes fragrant 
with pines, and the granite cliffs shining against 
the sky." But if he is dreaming in this idyllic 
spot to-day, he must return to his constituency 
to vote to-morrow. And this contact, this in- 
terplay of the ideal and the actual, runs through 
the whole dialogue. The three friends spend 
their last day together in discussing the value 
of political ideals in general and the relative 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



17 



merits of their three preferences. Given the 
personae and the subjects, our readers would 
surmise the general division of the treatment. 

In one sense, the dialogue cannot be said to 
make any contribution to socialistic thought. 
Parts of it, without being in any way copied, 
recall some of the lofty and glowing passages of 
Morris ; and every point could be traced to one 
source or another. But it is a commonplace that 
appropriate setting and effective re-statement of 
problems and arguments often constitute a more 
real service than the introduction of new mat- 
ter. The topics here discussed are of such a 
nature as to justify frequent treatment ; and 
the indirect method of our dialogue is an invalu- 
able auxiliary to the positiveness of the avowed 
apostles of the cause. Sometimes we wish Mr. 
Dickinson were not keeping his English audi- 
ence quite so strictly in mind; and one might 
hazard the conjecture that a more intimate 
acquaintance with some of our Western States 
would not be without value for a man who 
would understand them as quickly as this sym- 
pathetic Cambridge economist. With some of 
their experiments before him, he might intro- 
duce at least a parenthetical modification in one 
or two paragraphs. But herewith we are de- 
scending to details, for which there is no space. 
We may merely say, in closing, that we think 
the book is worthy of Mr. Dickinson ; which 
implies our belief that it deserves to be widely 
read by thinking people. 

It is unnecessary to state that the English of 
" Justice and Liberty " is lucid and attractive. 
It does not seem to us that the finest passages 
reach quite the highest levels of our author's 
" Symposium "; but the style is admirable 
throughout. One sentence, however, on page 
125, made us pause ; and we are still wondering 
whether " He's no worse than you or me " is 
due to deliberate antinomianism or merely to 
human frailty. We hope it is the latter. 

F. B. R. Hellems. 



The Poet of Science.* 



Lucretius, in pure poetic charm and natural 
magic, is probably not the " chief poet on the 
Tiber side " that Mrs. Browning saluted in him. 
There are single cadences of Virgil for which 
the adept would cheerfully sacrifice the whole 
of Latin literature and all the Res Romanoi 
perituraque regna — "Kings and realms that 
pass to rise no more." But Virgil — " light 

•Lucretius, Epicurean and Poet. By John Masson, 
M.A., LL.D. New York: E. P. Button & Co. 



among the vanished ages," inspiration of Dante, 
Racine, and Tennyson — belongs to a past which 
had leisure to appreciate the elegant and the 
exquisite. Lucretius, the supreme, the only, 
poet of science, still influences the thoughts of 
the leaders of thought, and will hold his place 
until the long-heralded epic of evolution is 
evolved. 

More than a century has elapsed since Andre 
Chenier justified the plan of his " Hermes " by 
the now familiar argument that the world of 
science is more poetic than the world of fable, 
and boasted that his Pegasus, soaring on the 
wings of Buff on, should pass with Lucretius, 
by the light of Newton's torch, " La ceiiiture 
d'azur sur le globe etendue.^' But the verse 
of the Roman poet which he thus translates still 
remains the inevitable expression of modern 
pride in the wonders of science. It is still the 
text of our greatest living poet and radical, 
when he hymns the achievements of the liberated 
spirit of man : 
" Past the wall unsurmounted that bars out our vision 

with iron and fire, 
He hath sent forth his soul for the stars to comply 

with and suns to conspire." 

There has been ample time for both the poet 
and his readers to acquire that familiarity with 
the processes and results of science which 
Wordsworth said must precede the effective use 
of scientific matter in poetry. But nothing has 
come of it except Tennyson's cautious experi- 
ments in dainty paraphrase ; and a few crudely 
ambitious epics of evolution and the rise of man, 
which posterity, if it remembers them at all, will 
class with Darwin's " Botanic Garden " and his 
"Temple of Nature." The vein of Shelley's 
" Queen Mab " and Andre Chenier's fragment- 
ary "Hermes" has not been excelled. And 
that at its best is a dilution of the austere sub- 
limity of Lucretius with the optimism of the 
eighteenth century's Utopian faith in progress 
and perfectibility. And so it is to the Roman 
versifier of a second-rate and obsolete Greek 
system of philosophy that our Langes, our 
Tyndalls, and Huxleys will still turn in their 
most exalted and enthusiastic moods, so long as 
the new pedagogy allows them to construe the 
Latin. 

They do not find in him, and they do not seek, 
a formulation of the atomic theory that will fit 
the new synthetic chemistry and the new physics 
of radio-active bodies. But they do find the 
consummate poetical expression of all the large 
moral and imaginative ideas which even the 
most advanced science can contribute to litera- 



18 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 1, 



ture and life — ideas for the most part not 
peculiar to the philosophy of Epicurus, but the 
common possession of all philosophically edu- 
cated ancients, even of those who rejected the 
absolutism of their dogmatic Epicurean formu- 
lation ; I mean such ideas as the reign of law, 
the continuity of natural process, the univer- 
sality of mechanical causation, the infinity of 
space and time, the recurrence of cosmogonical 
cycles, and the insignificance of man in the 
face of infinite Mutability. Only the laws 
that determine the apparition of genius could 
explain how it happened that the " De Rerum 
Natura " was written, not by a Greek but by a 
Roman poet, and that under the inspiration of 
what apart from the vigor of its assertion of a 
few fundamental truths was the least scientific 
of the Greek philosophies. But that the poem, 
once written, should not have been superseded 
by any poetic interpretation of nineteenth cen- 
tury science is no paradox except to the most 
superficial consideration. Science may be in 
itself more poetical to the scientific mind than 
myth. But there are only two or three ways 
in which the poet can make use of it. He 
may expound it in a frankly didactic poem ; he 
may experiment in the method of Tennyson ; 
he may try to rival the eloquence of Lucretius in 
the domain where the verified detail of modern 
science gives him no advantage over Lucretius. 

Now, though science is a new thing under the 
sun, the didactic poem is not. It has been tried 
from Hesiod's " Works and Days " to Philips's 
" Cider " and Armstrong's "Art of Preserving 
Health." Its literary value has never resided 
in the ostensible theme, but always in the 
episodes or a few informing ideas. The pleas- 
ure derived from the exposition of the nominal 
subject is at most the expert's interest in the 
ingenious expression in verse of what could be 
better said in prose. It is the curiosity of the 
professional latinist who reads Vida's "Game of 
Chess " or Addison's " Battle of the Cranes and 
Pygmies." This aesthetic law is not abrogated 
by the fact that the detail of ancient science was 
erroneous and that of the science of to-day is 
supposed to be true. Minute and didactic expo- 
sition is not poetry, whether the thing expounded 
be true or false. 

The method of Tennyson yields a genuine 
but slight effect of Alexandrian prettiness. 

" There sinks the nebulous star we call the sun, 
If that hypothesis of theirs be sound," 

is intentionally and plajdFully pedantic. 

" Before the little ducts began 
To feed thy bones with lime " 



will serve in a passage of curious philosophic 
meditation. 

" Still as, while Saturn whirls, his stedfast shape 
Sleeps on his luminous ring " 

presents a definite picture, and belongs to the 
science (astronomy) in which the imaginative 
familiarity postulated by Wordsworth is most 
likely to be attained. 

" Break thou deep vase of chilling tears 
That grief hath shaken into frost," 

interests by its subtlety even when not fully 
understood. But these experiments in orna- 
mentation are not the predicted poetry of science, 
and Tennyson's taste seems to have marked the 
limits of their present application. 

It remains for our poets to surpass Lucretius 
in his own domain — if they have the mind to. 
It would be idle to predict that no modem poet 
will ever achieve this. But it is the plain fact 
that no poet has yet done so. Two great clas- 
sical books seem to have expressed once for all 
the two fundamental imaginative conceptions of 
the world — the " Timaeus " of Plato, a " hymn 
to the universe " conceived as the work of benefi- 
cent intelligence subordinating chaos and neces- 
sity to design ; the " De Rerum Natura," a 
hymn to the scientific spirit emancipated from 
superstition, a hymn to Nature manifold in 
works, freed from the yoke of the gods, change- 
less in the sum amid eternal change, and suffi- 
cient unto herself. 

Macaulay marvels that what he deems the 
dreariest and silliest of systems of philosophy 
should have produced the sublimest of philoso- 
phic poems. But the poetry of the " De Rerum 
Natura" owes little to anything specifically 
Epicurean. Its inspiration is first the whole 
scientific and rationalistic tradition of antiquity 
from Empedocles and Democritus down, and 
second the poet's own passionate abhorrence of 
superstition, anthropomorphism, and the petty 
carpenter theories of creation and design which 
the official apologists of religion opposed to his 
picture of the self-sufficing life of universal 
nature. The causes of this anti-theological pas- 
sion, of which there are few traces in the extant 
fragments of Epicurus, we are left to conjecture. 
Its effects on the fortunes of the poem would 
make an interesting chapter of literary history. 
Mythology and religion have always been the 
chief inspiration of poetry and art. But the 
impassioned revolt against superstition and 
sophistical apologetics has played a far greater 
part than the conventional histories of literature 
and philosophy recognize. Every generation 
since the Renaissance has had its Mirandolas, 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



19 



its Brunos, its Spinozas, its Shelleys, enthusias- 
tic imaginative rationalists who, beneath transpa- 
rent veils of mysticism, Platonism, or Cartesian- 
ism, have in their inmost souls been dominated 
by this passion for which they could find relief 
only in declaiming the verses of Lucretius. 
Add to these the readers who, like Tennyson, 
are alternately fascinated and repelled by the 
supreme poetic statement of the doctrine which 
they cannot endure to accept, and the chief 
source of the permanent power of the " De Rerum 
Natura " over the minds of men is made plain. 
In spite of the enormous Lucretian literature, 
there is still room for a study of the poem from 
this point of view. 

Professor Masson, whom these introductory 
observations have kept waiting too long, can 
hardly be said to attempt this in his brief study 
of Lucretius's influence on his own age, or in his 
concluding chapter on what the world owes to 
Lucretius. His estimable but not especially pen- 
etrating or original book is not easily reviewed 
with fairness by a specialist. It is in part a 
revision and expansion of the author "s standard 
work on the " Atomic System of Lucretius " 
published in 1884. In seventeen discursive and 
not perfectly welded chapters of very unequal 
merit and fulness of detail, it treats in the 
main competently and readably most of the 
topics that belong to a complete monograph, the 
life and times of the poet, the atomic theory, 
the Epicurean view of the world, the Epicu- 
rean ethics, the Epicurean gods, the sources of 
Epicurus's doctrine, poetry and science, etc. 
The scholarship is sound but old-fashioned and 
not always critical or up to date. Professor 
Masson appears to be unacquainted with recent 
attempts to acquit Democritus of the blimder 
of affirming that a heavy body falls faster 
than a light one in a vacuum. He has appar- 
ently not read Diels, and cites the pre-Socratics 
from the obsolete edition of Mullach, thus 
attributing to Democritus some ethical sayings 
which are plainly spurious. He labors unneces- 
sarily some obvious points, and fails to go to 
the bottom of subtler questions, especially in 
the Epicurean psychology. His literary and 
moral criticism is pleasant and true enough, but 
less trenchantly and vividly expressed than that 
of Mallock or SeUar. He still thinks it neces- 
sary to apologize for Lucretius. The book is a 
good and sufficient monograph for the general 
reader and the undergraduate. But it is not a 
notable contribution to literature or scholarship. 

Paul Shorey. 



Problems of Race Friction.* 



The last few years have seen an increasing- 
accentuation of race-friction in many parts of 
the world, and it is no exaggeration to say that 
the problem of the races is everywhere becoming 
more acute, and must continue to become so on 
account of the greater intermingling of alien 
races where they formerly lived apart. Happy 
indeed is the land which has no such problem ! 
We find it to-day a disturbing element in many 
of the possessions of England, notably in certain 
of the West Indian Islands ; in South Africa, 
in Australia, in India, and in Northwest Canada ; 
we find it in Austria, Hungary, Germany, and 
Russia; and of course it is always with us in 
America. 

The nature and causes of race-friction, and 
the possible ways of removing it, are matters 
which are now claiming the attention of more 
thoughtful men than almost any other questions. 
Each year brings us a new group of books deal- 
ing with this peculiar and difficult problem. 
Two of the latest contributions to this group are 
Professor Josiah Royce's " Race Questions, and 
Other American Problems," and Mr. Alfred 
H. Stone's " Studies in the American Race 
Problem." The author of one of these books 
is a Harvard professor ; the other is a young 
Mississippi planter of education and practical 
experience. Professor Royce's volume is a col- 
lection of largely unrelated essays, only two of 
which call for mention in this review. These 
are entitled " Race Questions and Race Preju- 
dices " and " Provincialism." In the former he 
examines into the causes and nature of race- 
prejudice ; in the latter he discusses the meaning 
of provincialism, its uses and its evils. Profes- 
sor Royce contrasts the situation in the United 
States with that in Jamaica and Trinidad, where, 
he asserts, race-friction has been reduced to a 
minimum by the peculiar character of English 
administration and by English reticence. The 
maintenance of an efficient country constab- 
ulary into which negroes are admitted is one 
of the many policies which, in the opinion of 
Professor Royce, have been adopted to secure 
the loyalty and respect of the negro popula- 
tion. Moreover, the English habit of ruling 
the inferior race without publicly claiming 
the virtues of superiority tends very greatly, 
he thinks, to remove a source of irritation 

* Race Questions, and Other American Problems. By Josiah 
Royce. New York : The Macmillan Co. 

Studies in the American Bace Problem. By Alfred Stone. 
New York : Doubleday, Page & Co. 



ao 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 1, 



which lies at the bottom of much of the trouble 
in North America. 

Mr. Stone's work is a much more elaborate 
study of the negro problem, and is based on his 
experience and observations as an extensive 
employer of negro labor on a Mississippi planta- 
tion. To his personal observation he has added 
ten or fifteen years of systematic and almost 
continuous study of the literature dealing with 
the history of the negro race in America. His 
equipment, therefore, is such as to inspire the 
reader of his volume with a feeling of confidence. 
He contrasts the attitude of the Northern and 
Southern white people, discusses the grounds of 
difference, reviews at length some plantation 
experiments of his own with the negro, describes 
the somewhat remarkable condition of affairs in 
the Yazoo-Mississippi Delta (the great black 
belt of Mississippi, where he declares there is 
but little race-friction), considers the economic 
future of the negro, discourses upon the causes 
and results of the increasing friction between 
the races, criticises President Roosevelt's negro 
policy and compares it with that of President 
McKinley, emphasizes the factor of the mulatto 
element in the question, and considers at length 
the political aspects of the negro problem. On 
the whole, Mr. Stone's point of view is that of 
the Southern white man, though his discussion 
is so free from evidence of passion and his con- 
clusions are based on such wide study and ex- 
tended observation that they command respect 
even where they do not compel conviction. So 
far, no study of the negro problem has been 
produced which throws so much light on the 
whole question of the social, economic, and polit- 
ical life of the negro race in America. It is 
the work of a man who not only knows the 
situation from personal contact with the negro, 
but possesses in addition a rare theoretical 
knowledge based on wide and systematic reading. 

Three chapters of the book are contributed 
by Professor Walter F. Wilcox; these deal 
with the criminality of the negro, the causes of 
its increase, and the resulting influence upon 
race relations ; census statistics relating to 
the wealth, population, occupations, education, 
and death rate of the race ; and the probable in- 
crease of the negro population in America. Mr. 
Wilcox shows that the increase of crime among 
the negroes has been much larger relatively than 
that among the white race. The predicted in- 
crease of population among the negroes, how- 
ever, he declares is not justified by the teachings 

of the census. t ^ht r^ 

J. W. Garner. 



The Begixxings oe Acadia.* 

The Champlain Society of Toronto published 
last year the first volume of Grant and Biggar's 
edition of Lescarbot's " History of New France," 
of which two other volumes are to follow. It 
now issues Nicolas Denys's " Description and 
Natural History of the Coasts of North Amer- 
ica," translated and edited by Dr. WiUiam F. 
Ganong. If it never publishes anything better, 
from every point of view, than these two works, 
it will have more than justified its existence. 
Professor Ganong has brought within reach of 
the ordinary reader one of the essential sources 
of early Canadian history, and one which 
hitherto has been inaccessible to all except a 
few special students — inaccessible for two rea- 
sons : first, because the original edition is 
exceedingly rare ; and second, because it is 
written in old French, and in a manner so faidty 
and confused that more than one scholar has 
dismissed it as unintelligible. The task pre- 
sented to the translator has been ♦' not simply 
to render a book of bad French into one of 
good English, but also to discover, and to show 
by proper annotation, the author's real meaning 
when he is obscure, and the actual truth when 
he is in error. In other words, the book de- 
manded not only a translator, but also a com- 
mentator who had local knowledge of the places, 
the objects, and the contemporary records Ijear- 
ing on the events which Denys describes." How 
happy Professor Ganong has been in fidfilling 
these requirements, an examination of his work 
will abundantly prove. It is not too much to 
say that the Champlam Society could hardly 
have found any other scholar so competent in 
every way to interpret this most difficult of 
early Canadian narratives. 

In spite of its ambitious title, Denys's book 
is confined to the coasts of Acadia, or to what 
now form the provinces of Nova Scotia and 
New Brunswick ; but it is nevertheless, within 
this restricted field, a work of the first impor- 
tance. It narrates events, a knowledge of which 
is essential to a clear understanding of the 
history of Acadia in the seventeenth century, 
which are not to be found elsewhere. It 
describes the country and its inhabitants as 
they were in Denys's day ; gives a good deal of 
attention to its natural history, sometimes accu- 
rate, but oftener the reverse ; and devotes nearly 

*The Description and Natitral History of the Coasts 
OF North America (Acadia). By Nicholas Denys. Translated 
and edited, with a memoir of the author, collateral documents, 
and a reprint of the Original, by William F. Ganong, Ph.D. 
Toronto : The Champlain Society. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



21 



half the second volume to an elaborate account 
of the cod-fishery. Despite its apparent tedi- 
ousness and present uselessness, this portion of 
Denys's narrative is, as Professor Ganong says, 
" replete with interest from start to finish." 
It constitutes " by far the most complete and 
authoritative exposition we possess of that sum- 
mer fishery for cod which played so large a 
part in the early relations between Europe and 
North-eastern America. It is, moreover, the 
best and clearest part of the book, the only part, 
apparently, which Denys really enjoyed writing. 
With excellent arrangement and all complete- 
ness, and withal by aid of many a vivid phrase, 
happy turn, and illustrative incident, he brings 
before us with the greatest clearness every de- 
tail of that business of which he was a thorough 
master, and a master in love with his work." 
One of the principal objects which Denys had 
in view in writing his book was, in fact, to 
arouse the government and people of France 
to the possibilities of the cod-fishery of Acadia. 
This portion of the narrative furnishes a rather 
curious illustration of the fact that a man never 
writes so effectively as when he is describing 
something with which he is thoroughly familiar, 
and in which is absorbingly interested. 

Some of the most entertaining pages of the 
book are those in which Denys describes the 
beaver and its wonderful works. None of our 
contemporary " Nature fakirs " — as Mr. Arthur 
Stringer unkindly calls them — could hold a 
candle to this unimaginative chronicler, in the 
more than human intelligence attributed to the 
industrious and long-suffering beaver. 

" It is necessary to know first of all that the Beaver 
has only four teeth, two above and two below. The 
largest are of two finger-breadths, the others have them 
in proportion to their size. They have rocks for sharp- 
ening them, rubbing them on their tops. With their 
teeth they cut down trees as large as half barrels. 
Two of them work together at it, and a man with an 
axe will not lay it low quicker than do they. They 
make it always fall on the side which they wish, and 
where it is most convenient for them. 

" To place all these workmen at their business, and to 
make them do their work well, there is need of an archi- 
tect and commanders. Those are the old ones which 
have worked at it formerly. According to number there 
are eight to ten commanders, who nevertheless are all 
under one, who gives the orders. It is this architect 
who goes often to the atelier of one, often to that of the 
other, and is always in action. When he has fixed upon 
the place where it is necessary to make the dam, he 
employs there a number of the Beavers to remove that 
which could injure it, such as fallen trees, which would 
be able to lead the water underneath the dam, and cause 
loss of the water. Those are the masons. He sets others 
to cut down trees, and then to cut branches of the length 
of about two feet or more according to the thickness of 



the branch. These are the carpenters. Others have to 
carry the wood to the place of the work where the masons 
are, (thus acting) like the masons' men. Others are 
destined for the land; they are the old ones, which have 
the largest tails, and they act as hod-carriers. There 
are some which dig the ground and scrape it with their 
hands; these are the diggers. Others have to load it. 
Each does his duty without meddling with anything else. 
Each set of workmen at a task has a commandant with 
them who overlooks their work, and shows them how it 
should be done. The one who commands the masons 
shows them how to arrange the trees, and how to place 
the earth properly. Thus each one shows those who are 
under his charge. If they are neglectfiU of their duty 
he chastises them, beats them, throws himself on them, 
and bites them to keep them at their duty. 

" Everything being thus arranged, which indeed is soon 
accomplished, every morning each one goes to his work. 
At eleven o'clock they go to find something to eat, and 
do not return until about two o'clock. I believe this is 
because of the great heat, which is against them, for if it 
is bright moonlight they work at night more than by day. 

" Let us watch them now all at work making their 
dam. There are the masons ; their helpers bring them 
the wood cut into lengths. Each brings his piece 
according to his strength upon his shoulders. They 
walk entirely upright upon their hind feet. Arriving 
there they place their piece near the masons. The hod- 
carriers do the same; their tails serve them as hods. 
To load these they hold themselves fully erect, and lay 
their tails quite flat on the ground. The loaders place 
the earth upon the tails, and trample it to make it hold, 
(building it) as high as they can, and bringing it to a 
sharp ridge at the top. Then those which are loaded 
march quite upright drawing their tails behind them. 
They unload near the masons, who, having the materials, 
begin to arrange their sticks one above another, and 
make of them a bed of the length and breadth which 
they wish to use for the foundation of the dam. In 
proportion as some place the wood, others bring hand- 
fuls of earth which they place upon it, packing it down 
to fill up the interstices between the sticks. When it is 
upon the sticks, they hammer it with the tail, with which 
they strike it above to render it firm. This layer being 
made of earth and of sticks the length of the dam, they 
add sticks and then earth on top as before, and go on 
extending it always in height. The side to the water, 
in proportion as it rises, is lined with earth, which they 
place there to fill up the holes which the sticks might 
have made. In proportion as they deposit this earth, 
they place their posterior end on the edge of the dam, 
so that the tail hangs down; then raising the tail they 
strike against the earth to flatten it, and to make it 
enter towards the water, so as to keep that from possi- 
bility of entering. They even place there two or three 
layers of earth, one upon another, beating it from time 
to time with the tail, so that the water cannot pass 
through their dam. When they are beating like that 
with their tails, they can be heard for a league in the 
woods." 

In addition to the translation, and an exact 
reprint of the original text of Denys's book, 
Dr. Ganong furnishes a very full bibliography 
of material bearing on Denys, to which Mr. 
Victor H. Paltsits has added a bibliographical 
description of the original work. All the maps 



22 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 1, 



and plates of the original, as well as those of 
the Dutch translation of 1788, are reproduced 
here, as well as a number of maps drawn by 
Dr. Ganong to illustrate the topography of the 
narrative, and photographs of the sites of 
Denyss establishments at Port Rossignol, 
La Have, Chedabucto, Saint Peters, Miscou, 
and Nepisguit. Lawrence J. Burpee. 



Briefs on New Books. 



The teacher 
and the taught. 



Although Professor George Herbert 
Palmer has chosen " The Teacher " 
as title for the collection of educa- 
tional essays and addresses — twelve of his own and 
four of Mrs. Palmer's — which he issues (through 
the Houghton Mifflin Co. ), he possesses to such a 
degree that essential quality of the good teacher, 
vicariousness, that he has made his book almost 
as attractive and useful to the learner as to the 
instructor. Especially interesting to the general 
seeker for knowledge are his chapters on " Self- 
Cultivation in English," " Specialization," " Doubts 
about University Extension," " The Glory of the 
Imperfect," '' A Teacher of the Olden Time," and 
" College Expenses." Even his paper on " The 
Ideal Teacher " and the two discussing the elective 
system as in use at Harvard are readable as well as 
professionally important and valuable. It is note- 
worthy that this teacher of ethics is opposed to the 
formal teaching of ethics in schools ; the dissection 
of conduct and motives he very sensibly holds to 
be fruitful of nothing but morbid self-consciousness 
and moral indecision, in the young. " I declare," 
he says, "at times when I see the ravages which 
conscientiousness works in our New England stock, 
I wish these New Englanders had never heard moral 
distinctions mentioned. Better their vices than their 
virtues. The wise teacher will extirpate the first 
sproutings of the weed ; for a weed more difficult 
to extirpate when grown there is not. We run a 
serious risk of implanting it in our children when 
we undertake their class instruction in ethics." Yet 
he would have all teaching, in the best and largest 
sense, ethical — instilling, unintrusively, right prin- 
ciples of thought and feeling and action. His " ideal 
teacher " is " big, bounteous, and unconventional," 
and is also endowed with the following four funda- 
mental qualities, — an aptitude for vicariousness, an 
already accumulated wealth, an ability to invigorate 
life through knowledge, and a readiness to be for- 
gotten. The four papers from Mrs. Alice Freeman 
Palmer's pen — three of them reprinted from pe- 
riodicals and the fourth taken from the short-hand 
report of an address — will make the reader share 
Professor Palmer's regret that his gifted wife did 
not oftener give literary expression to her thoughts 
and ideals. The entire volume has a breadth of 
view and of interest and a charm of style such as 
few books on education possess. 



Some months ago the cable that 
r^eS?ml. transmits just and unjust things 

alike, brought the news that Sir 
Oliver Lodge had proved by scientific evidence the 
immortality of the soul. The more complete accounts 
in the English press reflected what had really been 
said more soberly, but sufficiently corroborated the 
trend of it all to explain the cruder interpretation. 
There is accordingly a considerable interest in the 
volume which has just been issued by Messrs. 
Moffat, Yard & Co., with the title " Science and 
Immortality." The book is divided into four dis- 
tinct parts : the first is concerned with science and 
faith ; the second with ecclesiastical problems of 
worship and service in the Church of England ; the 
third with the problem of immortality; the fourth 
with the relations of science and Christianity. It 
thus appears that Sir Oliver Lodge as a layman is 
particularly interested in the church and in religions 
matters ; that he is abundantly persuaded of the 
truth and value of a liberal religious belief ; that he 
is desirous to rationalize his faith with his scientific 
view of the material universe ; that he recognizes as 
equally real and equally a part of the order of nature 
the inner spiritual life, which must once more be 
harmonized with the more objective uniformities of 
nature and which must be made significant in con- 
nection with the historical unf oldment of the religions 
of men, and notably of Christianity. All this is 
clearly stated, and will carry conviction, or fail to 
do so, largely according to the proclivities and con- 
victions of the reader. There is nothing notably 
new in the way of argument, and much of it comes 
suspiciously near to what may be termed special 
pleading. Thus, returning to the report of the 
proof of immortality, it appears that the author is 
already convinced of it on the grounds of faith, and 
yet is sympathetic to such additional truths as may 
come from seeming non-conformities and transcend- 
ings of ordinary experience in the way of telepathy 
and spiritual communications. In all this he quotes 
approvingly from Myers, and sets before us once 
more the combination within one mind of a man 
carrying on rigorous impersonal research by one 
set of methods and standards of evidence, and yet 
equally engaging in another in which he gives ad- 
herence to quite different orders of probabilities. 
As a personal attitude, this is interesting and legiti- 
mate ; what is unfortunate is that the reputation of 
the physicist should become subtly involved in the 
personal predilections of the man of faith. 

,, . , The two closing: volumes of Professor 

Venice at _^ ^.r i ,•» ., -it • » /■»«• 

the coming Pompeo Molmenti s " Venice ( Mc- 

0/ Napoleon. Clurg) deal with Venetian life in the 

age of decadence. The account covers the period 

from the middle of the sixteenth century to the fall 

of the republic in 1797, an age of much splendor and 

outward magnificence, of vast activities and many 

real triumphs, but also a period of positive decline 

in commerce, in industry, in military efficiency, and 

in moral strength. Consequently, when Napoleon 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



23 



appeared in northern Italy all power of resistance was 
gone and the terrified patricians hastily abdicated. 
In his essay on the fall of the republic (the closing 
chapter of the work) the author appears to believe 
that the city should have refused to yield to the 
Corsican ; but the story of general decline that runs 
through every chapter in these two volumes is likely 
to convince the reader that aU resistance would have 
been useless. While the author admits that Vene- 
tian weakness was in large measure due to decay of 
character, external factors, he believes, were respon- 
sible to a far greater extent. The discovery of new 
trade routes diverted the Oriental trade to other 
ports ; the competition of England and Holland 
ruined Venetian commerce in the north and the 
west ; incessant wars with the Turks in the Archi- 
pelago consumed the vigor and the resources of the 
state. Of the increasing helplessness, the rulers 
were keenly conscious ; the motion for the abolition 
of the old regime came from the doge himself; of 
the five hundred and thirty-seven patricians present 
at the final meeting of the Great Council, " only 
twenty voted against the sacrifice of their country ; 
five abstained." In general, the plan followed in 
these volumes is the same as in the earlier ones : 
the treatment is topical and descriptive, not chrono- 
logical and narrative. They have all the excellences 
of the earlier parts, and also share in their defects ; 
but these have been discussed in earlier issues of this 
journal (see The Dial for July 16, 1907, and Jan- 
uary 16, 1908), and need not be recounted here. 
However, after all possible points of adverse criti- 
cism have been urged, the fact remains that in no 
other work is the student of Italian society likely to 
find so clear, vivid, and exhaustive a discussion of 
Venetian life, both public and private, as in these 
six volumes by Professor Molmenti. For the pub- 
lishers' part in the production of this work no critic 
can have anything but the highest praise : rarely 
does one find a set of books in which artistic effort 
is evident to such a high degree. The beautiful 
binding, the clear type, and the numerous illustra- 
tions give the publishers an undoubted right to claim 
that this set is " in every respect a monumental piece 
of bookmaking." 

Life in a Books about the Civil War continue 

Border city, to multiply, and for many of them 
in war-time. ^YiQve is genuine need. The recent 
war books of greatest worth are those volumes of 
reminiscences by civilian participators in the con- 
flict — the women and the non-combatant men. To 
this class belongs Dr. Galusha Anderson's " Story of 
a Border City during the Civil War " (Little, Brown 
& Co.). Dr. Anderson was a Baptist minister in 
St. Louis from 1858 to 1866 ; his work is based on 
his own recollections, on the published writings of 
others, and on the material in the great War Records 
collection. The list of subjects treated is compre- 
hensive and attractive. As a story of life in a Border 
State city, the book is valuable. It is easily the best 
and most comprehensive account we have of the 



peculiar conditions in such a community, and much 
of it would apply to conditions that existed in the 
other Border States. The story holds the attention 
from beginning to end. It tells how a city strongly 
Southern in sentiment was held by force in the 
Union ; how Unionism was strengthened ; how the 
neutral and indifferent were converted into Union- 
ists; how the people were divided in religious, 
social, and political matters. Dr. Anderson makes 
it clear that it was the German element in Missouri 
which saved the State to the Union. One of the 
best things in the volume is the account of the psy- 
chological influences brought to bear by the Union- 
ists upon the members of the Convention of 1861. 
The writer aims to be impartial, and is certainly not 
bitter ; but he never sees, probably never saw, the 
other side of the case. On all that concerns the 
troubles in the churches, the fight over secession, 
the question of slavery, of partisan politics, of the 
bitter feelings that resulted from the many contro- 
versies of the time, he is wholly partisan ; he simply 
states one side, and appears never to have heard of 
any other. This causes his text to give the impres- 
sion that the Unionists of Missouri, though in con- 
trol of the state and of the city, were continuously 
persecuted by the Confederate sympathizers; and 
also makes it appear, although without intention, that 
the Southern women were frequently coarse, brutal, 
and at times addicted to the use of profanity. The 
work is worth much as a source which the historian 
may later make use of. Its onesidedness may be 
offset by the opposite bias of Confederate memoirs. 

The most direct method of acquiring a 
^ur colleges'^ pessimistic attitude towards the value 

of American education is to attend a 
few teachers' meetings. A vaguely enthusiastic 
audience responds, with a zeal mistaken for loyalty, 
to a wildly extravagant laudation of the teacher's 
calling, or to an oratorically brilliant and empty 
appraisal of education as a panacea for all ills — 
except apparently this vain exhibition of the futility 
of it all. It is accordingly with a very unusual 
cordiality that one greets the little volume by Mr. 
Abraham Flexner, <' The American College : A 
Criticism " (The Century Co.). For it contains a 
serious, large-viewed survey of what is really going 
on in school and college, a sober appreciation of 
what education may be expected to do, a sane per- 
spective of values amid the practical possibilities of 
the situation, and a clear appraisal of the merits and 
defects of current institutions. The emphasis is 
consistently placed upon the college — not the 
specialist's university — as the institution best 
adapted to carry the young man (and young woman) 
across the most vital period of his formative career 
and secure for him the realization of his capabilities 
and their proper training for efficiency. Mr, 
Flexner finds that the American college " is peda- 
gogically deficient, and unnecessarily deficient, alike 
in earnestness and in intelligence ; that in conse- 
quence our college students are, and for the most part 



24 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 1, 



Evolution 
upside down. 



emerge, flighty, superficial, and immature, lacking, 
as a class, concentration, seriousness, and thorough- 
ness." The elective system in its unrestrained 
form is held accountable for some of this, the ab- 
sence of clearly conceived ideals on the part of those 
in charge of education for more, and the false strain- 
ing in behalf of graduate study, and the general 
tendency to look to numbers, statistical growth, and 
administrative success, for other aspects of the gen- 
eral failure. Lack of good teaching is recognized 
as at once a cause and an effect of the wrong em- 
phasis of things. " Emphasis of the teaching motive 
will put an end to commercialism. Efficient teaching 
is utterly irreconcilable with numerical and commer- 
cial standards of success." Diagnosis is the first con- 
dition of scientific treatment. Mr. FJexner's analysis 
is essentially of this type ; yet he is not without rem- 
edies, which he prescribes discerningly. The whole 
forms an admirable and timely criticism of an im- 
portant factor in the American problem, and one 
upon which a good deal more remains to be said and 
to be thought and done. 

When one takes up a book dealing 
with man and with evolution, the no- 
tion in his mind is that the discussion 
will in general be about what evolution has done or 
is doing for man. The attitude of Mr. Tyler's 
" Man in the Light of Evolution " (Appleton) is the 
exact opposite of this. It concerns itself with what 
man is doing for evolution! We are told (p. 188) 
that " Man's share and work in the process of 
evolution is the higher development and complete 
supremacy of the moral and religious powers, just as 
it was the business of the worm to develop viscera 
and of the lower vertebrates to add new muscles and 
motor nerve centers." This sentence strikes the 
keynote of the constructive (sociological) portion of 
the book. It well illustrates the author's unique 
outlook on organic evolution. Organisms play a 
very active part in their own evolution. In illus- 
tration of this curious attitude the following passage 
(p. 28), typical of what occurs throughout the book, 
is worth quoting : "Worms lifted life to a plane far 
higher than that of coelenterates. After their 
appearance only muscular and seeing forms could 
hope to play any leading part in the world. They 
developed weapons of offense and defense. Life 
became harder, the struggle more severe, competi- 
tion more marked and harsh. A strong, tough, 
agile, alert body was to be developed. Worms led 
the way toward this. But they had only begun to 
utilize and realize the possibilities of the muscular 
system. As soon as this and the visceral organs 
needed for its support and service had been fairly 
started, the worm began to experiment in building 
a skeleton." It seems almost inconceivable that it 
was intended that this sort of crude anthropomor- 
phism should be taken seriously. Yet if it is meant 
only for a figurative mode of presentation, the facil- 
ity exhibited by the author in long-sustained indirect 
and figurative discourse might well be envied by a 



Chinese potentate. The book is a curious mixture 
of about equal parts of, first, the sort of biology in- 
dicated in the passages quoted; second, a very thin 
and innutritious social philosophy ; and third, per- 
fervid religious enthusiasm. It cannot be regarded 
as a particularly significant contribution to the 
literature of evolution. 

The domestic "The Family Letters of Christina 
of Christina Georgina Rossetti ' ' ( Scribner ) , edited 
Rossetti. by her brother, Mr. William Michael 

Rossetti, reveal, as the editor says in his preface, " a 
beautiful and lovable character." The substance of 
the letters, in truth, is slight ; and of the style noth- 
ing can be said except that it is simple, unaffected, 
sisterly, and daughterly, in tone. Little of import- 
ance is to be gained from the collection that is not 
already known ; but excuse for publishing, if any be 
needed, may be found herein, that, as the Preface 
declares, " Christina Rossetti, by her work in poetry 
and authorship, made herself interesting to a great 
number of persons ; and that anything which tends 
to show forth her genuine self, her personality and 
tone of mind and feeling, cannot therefore be totally 
insignificant. Nothing could evince these more per- 
fectly than her family-letters do." Supplemented 
by a few letters to persons outside the family, by 
some addressed to herself (by Dante Gabriel, by 
Swinburne, Cayley, and others), and by extracts 
from her diary, the correspondence fills an octavo 
volume, which is further provided with appropriate 
portraits, views of houses, facsimiles, and other illus- 
trative matter. A useful index, too, is added. A 
random quotation from a letter to " my dear Gabriel " 
(dated August, 1880) may serve to close this brief 
notice. " Startling, portentous, quasi incredible is 
the climax of Lady Burdett Coutts's noble life. Can 
such ends come of such beginnings ? If so, may I 
never have gift, grace, or glamour, to woo me a hus- 
band not half my age ! ! I I had heard of the intended 
marriage, though I knew not whether truly reported : 
but of the disparity of years I had not an inkling. 
All amazements pale before this." 

Th d -s '^^^ contrast of nature and nurture 
ofovercaring — the biological forces that shape 
for the health. q„j. ends, rough-hew them as we will 
— appears nowhere more characteristically than in 
the making or marring of health. To keep well and 
sane, shall we let ourselves fall back upon a tem- 
pered inclination, or struggle thoughtfully to regu- 
late our ways in obedience to a system? Are we 
more likely to succeed by reason or by instinct ? Dr. 
Woods Hutchinson is a naturalist, not an artificialist. 
In his thesis entitled " Instinct and Heath " (Dodd, 
Mead & Co.) the two are one. He is a bold and 
incisive advocate, and his strokes tell. Like all his 
kind, he frequently overstates his own side of the 
case, thereby missing the benefit of the confidence 
that goes out to the moderate, and bringing upon 
himself the suspicion of less thorough command of 
his data than is essential to an authoritative wisdom. 



1909.] 



THE DIAii 



25 



Yet it is equally pertinent to remember that his aim 
is practical and his appeal a popular one. His knife 
is out for fads and superstitions, prejudices, and 
the over-zealous regimen. Diets are as apt to make 
dyspeptics as to help them. Pleasant things are not 
inherently noxious, as our Puritanic or proverbial 
misconceptions lay down, but are in the main pleas- 
ant because they are in accord with nature ; pleasure 
is the stamp of approval that nature gives them as 
their reward. Early rising may be economically 
desirable, but physiologically it is better to sleep all 
you can. While one man's meat is another's poison, 
it is so mainly in exceptional instances. For the 
average man meat is jast what he needs, and its 
place cannot be taken by any of the substitutes for 
food. Appetite, reaction, cheer, unconcern, these 
are the signs of health and vigor ; they are normal, 
and to be trusted. All this is sound doctrine, most 
forcibly inculcated. It is a good thing to have so 
much of this side of the health question popularized, 
as against the endless systems that claim in a single 
experience to establish the falsity of generations of 
instinctive wisdom. Dr. Hutchinson's prescriptions 
may be freely taken, though the prudent will add their 
own dose of salt. . . 

jprom Hampton M'*' Franklin Matthews's vivacious 
Roads to the account of our Atlantic fleet's recent 
Golden Gate. cruise from Hampton Roads over the 
waters of two oceans to San Francisco, as contained 
in letters sent from the fleet itself to the New York 
" Sun " (and printed simultaneously in various other 
newspapers throughout the country), is now pub- 
lished in attractive book form, under the title, " With 
the Battle Fleet" (Huebsch). Four of Mr. Henry 
Reuterdahl's drawings of the fleet are reproduced 
from '' Collier's Weekly," and a few illustrations 
from photographs are added. As is already widely 
known, Mr. Matthews does not in this narrative 
confine himself to a bald statement of facts ; he 
clothes the skeleton of more important events with 
the flesh and blood of humor and fancy, of human- 
nature study and portrayal, of bright conversation 
and vivid description. Among his most successful 
chapters are the one describing the ceremonies 
attending the crossing of the equator ; that relating 
the passage through Magellan Strait; the unex- 
pectedly amusing description, from the mouth of a 
boatswain's mate, of a bull fight in Peru ; and the 
account of the social life on a man-of-war. All those 
who like sea-yarns, and probably some who are not 
especially fond of them, will enjoy the book. 

J>ramatic ^^" Charles H. Caffin furnishes the 

principles for sixth volume of the well-known 
thepiavvoer. "Appreciation Series" (Baker & 
Taylor Co.). It is entitled "The Appreciation of 
the Drama," and aims to deduce from the experi- 
ence of the past and the present certain necessary 
principles that will form a basis of critical appre- 
ciation, on which the playgoer may establish his own 
judgment. He treats of the psychology of the 
audience, the plastic and pictorial stage, the actor 



and the play, the genesis and development of a plot, 
etc. The salient points in the general history of the 
drama are lucidly presented with practical succinct- 
ness. Mr. Caffin points out that the American 
dramatist shows a tendency to be an opportunist, 
to take advantage of some theme uppermost in the 
public mind and to treat it from the point of view 
of the man in the street (witness "The Lion and 
the Mouse" and "The Witching Hour"). He 
believes that when the truly characteristic American 
drama arrives it will be distinguished by largeness 
of outlook and treatment, by the equivalent of that 
spirit which has opened up the West and has raised 
the material and political importance of the country 
to its present height ; that it will be essentially a 
drama of liberty — viewing the problems that it pre- 
sents in relation to the national idea of equal chances 
for all, and with an independence of judgment that 
has in it something of prophetic vision. 



BRIEFER MENTION. 



" Writings of American Statesmen " is the title of a 
new series of books to be edited by Professor Lawrence 
B. Evans, and published by Messrs. G. P. Putnam's Sons. 
If we may judge from the volume of " Writings of 
George Washington " which now inaugurates the series, 
this enterprise gives much promise of usefulness. Most 
of the statesmen to be included already exist in " Works," 
but in this form are too voluminous for either the ordinary 
library or the average student. Such a selection as is 
now to be provided will do much to extend acquaintance 
with a department of American literature too often 
ignored because of the mass of its material. Each vol- 
ume of the new series will include three classes of 
matter: first, those documents which are of themselves 
important state papers ; second, accounts of important 
events in which the writer participated ; and, third, papers 
expressing the opinions of their writers upon public ques- 
tions of importance. In the case of the Washington 
volume, this three-fold purpose seems to be very satis- 
factorily accomphshed. 

" The American as He Is," by Dr. Nicholas Murray 
Butler, is a small volume published by the Macmillan 
Co. Its contents consist of three lectures given a few 
weeks ago before the University of Copenhagen, in 
pursuance of the exchange arrangement recently made 
between Danish and American professors. The lectures 
are neatly dedicated to the University before which 
they were delivered, an institution " whose beneficent 
activity began before America was discovered." The 
lectures consider the American in his three-fold char- 
acter of a political, social, and intellectual being, and 
are characterized by breadth of treatment and a clean- 
cut style. To draw, in large lines, a picture of that 
part of present-day civilization which the world knows 
as American is the avowed aim of the writer, and he 
reaches it with marked success. The closing sentence 
of his brief introduction is pregnant with meaning : 
" For a genuine understanding of the government and 
of the intellectual and moral temper of the people of 
the United States, one must know thoroughly and 
well the writings and speeches of three Americans, — 
Alexander Hamilton, Abraham Lincoln, and Ralph 
Waldo Emerson." 



26 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 1, 



Notes. 



" The Romance of American Expansion," by Mr. H. 
Addington Bruce, which has been appearing in " The 
Outlook " during the past year, will be published in book 
form early in 1909. 

" English Composition," by Professors Franklin T. 
Baker and Herbert V. Abbott, is a small text-book for 
the first years of high school work, published by Messrs. 
Henry Holt & Co. 

Mr. Charles Frederick Carter is soon to publish a 
book entitled " When Railroads Were New," which tells 
the full story of our first railroads with much picturesque 
detail. The illustrations will be a special feature. 

A pretty little anthology of love poems is compiled 
by Miss Emily W. Maynadier, and entitled " A Perfect 
Strength " ( " Are not two prayers a perfect strength ? ") . 
The booklet is published by Messrs. John W. Luce & Co. 

The Francis D. Tandy Co. publish a little book, edited 
by Mr. Tandy, devoted to " An Anthology of the Epi- 
grams and Sayings of Abraham Lincoln." There are 
upwards of two hundred brief passages, collected from 
various sources. 

" Country Walks about Florence," by Mr. Edward 
Hutton, is a charming little book of description, with 
many illustrations, by a writer who has many times 
proved his fitness to write of things Italian. Messrs. 
Charles Scribner's Sons are the publishers. 

Mr. H. G. Wells's new novel, " Tono-Bungay," will 
be published in book form on January 16. " Tono- 
Bungay " is the third real novel that Mr. Wells has 
produced. He has had it in hand and worked at it inter- 
mittently ever since the publication of " Kipps " in 1905. 

Miss Mary Garden, in " The Tumbler of Our Lady," 
is attracting much attention from New Yorkers this 
winter. Massenet s opera is based on a quaint mediieval 
legend of which a translation by Miss Lucy Kemp Welch 
has been published recently in Messrs. Duffield's " New 
Mediaeval Library." 

" The Emmanuel Movement, Its Principles, Methods 
and Results," is announced for spring publication by 
Messrs. Moffat, Yard & Co. The authors are Drs. 
El wood Worcester and Samuel McComb, some of 
whose lectures recently given in New York City will 
form a part of the work. 

The dramatic rights of " A Little Brother of the 
Rich " have been acquired by Messrs. Liebler & Co., 
of New York, who have already arranged with the 
Grand Opera House of Chicago to stage the play for 
the first time at that theatre on January 18 next. Mr. 
Patterson will dramatize the novel himself. 

A new book by the author of that delightful volume, 
" Confessio Medici," is announced by The Macmillan 
Co. The title is "Faith and Works of Christian 
Science," and the various chapters will deal with such 
subjects as The Reality of Nature, Disease and Pain, 
Common Sense and Christian Science, and Authority 
and Christian Science. 

Messrs. Gmn & Co. publish for the " International 
School of Peace " a valuable work containing the " Texts 
of the Peace Conferences at The Hague, 1899 and 
1907." The texts are given in French and English (in 
parallel columns), and certain related documents, such 
as the Geneva Convention and the United States Articles 
of War, are given in an appendix. The work is edited 
by Mr. James Brown Scott, and prefaced by Mr. Elihu 
W. Root. 



As the date of the Lincoln centenary approaches, 
interest in everything connected with Lincoln's life 
increases. An important historical study annoimced for 
early publication is "The Assassination of Abraham 
Lincoln," by Mr. David M. DeWitt, whose scholarly 
work on " The Impeachment and Trial of Andrew 
Johnson " is known to historical students. 

An additional volume in the " Authentic Edition " of 
the writings of Charles Dickens is entitled "Miscel- 
laneous Papers," and is published by Messrs. Charles 
Scribner's Sons. The contents of this volume consist of 
contributions to various newspapers and magazines, now 
brought together by Mr. B. W. Matz, and filling a vol- 
ume of over seven hundred closely-printed pages. 

James Dennistoun's "Memoirs of the Dukes of 
Urbino " has long been a standard work, but has for 
many years been unprocurable except from the dealers 
in second-hand books. No apology is needed for the 
handsome new edition, in three volumes, which has been 
edited and amiotated by that approved lover of Italy, Mr. 
Edward Hutton. The John Lane Co. publish this work. 

The Oliver Ditson Co. send us the first of two volumes 
of " Piano Compositions " by Louis Moreau Gottschalk, 
with a biographical sketch by Mr. William Arms Fisher. 
Here we have « The Last Hope," " The Maiden's Blush," 
" The Dying Poet," and a dozen others of the sentimental 
pieces so familiar to the last genei'ation, and so vastly 
better than the " popular " music upon which the young 
people of to-day are surfeited. 

The first fruits of the labors of the recently organized 
Concordance Society come to us in "AConcordance to the 
English Poems of Thomas Gray," edited by Professor 
Albert S. Cook, and published by the Houghton Mifflin 
Co. The volume is of moderate compass, and its early 
appearance has been made possible by the friendly col- 
laboration of a dozen or more scholars who have made 
the excerpts and read the proofs. 

The popularity of Mr. George P. Upton's handbook, 
" The Standard Operas," is evidenced by the announce- 
ment of the publishers that they are just putting to 
press the fifth printing of the new illustrated edition. 
This edition was first issued in October, 1896, at which 
time the book was entirely rewritten and illustrations 
added. The work originally was published in 1885, was 
revised in 1896, then reset in 1906, and the present is the 
twenty-fourth edition of the book since the beginning. 

The Champlain Society of Toronto has decided to 
undertake, with Mr. H. P. Biggar as editor, a transla- 
tion of the complete works of Champlain, and at the 
same time to reprint the French text. The whole 
work will run to four considerable volumes. Mr. 
Biggar is known as the author of " The Early Trading 
Companies of New France," and other historical works. 
The pubhcations of the Society are in limited editions 
of 500 copies — 250 for members and 250 for subscrib- 
ing libraries. 

Following up the success of Dr. Walton's "Why 
Worry ? " which has gone through five editions in six 
months, the Messrs. Lippincott expect to publish this 
month another volume on an allied subject by Dr. 
J. A. Mitchell. It will be called " Self Help for the 
Nei-vous." Among the outdoor books planned by the 
same publishers for the spring season are " The Home 
Garden," a new volume by Mr. Eben E. Rexford, 
author of " Four Seasons in the Garden," and a book 
on the subject of wild flowers by Dr. George L. Walton, 
author of " Why Worry." 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



27 



Topics in Leading PERiomcAt,s. 

January, 1909. 

Advertisement. Edward 8. Martin. Atlantic. 
Affinities of History, Famous — I. Lyndon Orr. Munsey. 
Alexander, J. W., Mural Decorations of. W. Walton. Scribtier. 
Alexis, Nord, and His Negro Republic. G.J. M.Simons. Munsey. 
American Art, — Is it a Betrayal ? L. H. Sullivan. Craftsman. 
American Art : Its Future. Birgre Harrison. No. American. 
Am. Democracy and Corporate Reform. R. R. Reed. Atlantic. 
American Painters in Paris, Some New. C. H. Caflfin. Harper. 
American Politics, Passing of the Reactionary in. Munsey. 
American Tariff-Making. Canada and. Review of Reviews. 
Automobile Racers and their Achievements. M. Irving. Putnam.. 
Baedeker, The New — VI. Bookmau. 
Balaclava, Battle of. Robert Shackleton. Harper. 
Balestrieri, Lionello, Art of. Charles H. Caffin. Metropolitan. 
Balkan States : Europe's Storm-Centre. Munsey. 
Balzac in Brittany. W. H. Helm. Putnam. 
Benguet Road, Building the. A. W. Page. World's Work. 
Big Families, — What they Mean to Nations. WorliVs Work. 
Bleaching and Dyeing Foods. E. H. S. Bailey. Popular Science. 
Blind Spot, The. Edwin L. Sabin. Lippincott. 
Botanists, St. Louis— II. Perley Spaulding. Popular Science. 
Budding Girl, The. G. Stanley Hall. Appleton. 
Buffalo, Last of the. J. 0. Jacobs. World's Work. 
Caine, Hall. Autobiography of — V. Appleton. 
California Paradoxes. Frances A. Doughty. Putnam. 
Campaign-Fund Publicity. Perry Belmont. North Am.erican . 
Canadian Manufacturers. E. Porritt. North American. 
Chemistry and Medicine, Modern. T. W. Richards. Atlantic. 
Church, The, and Scholarship. Shailer Mathews. World To-day. 
Civic Betterment, NewCampaignfor. P.N. Kellogg. Rev.ofRex-s. 
Cleveland, Grover, at Princeton. Andrew F. West. Century. 
Commercialism. J. J. Stevenson. Pojndar Science. 
Conti, Cesare : Italian- American Hustler. Outing. 
Converse, F. S.: Composer. F. W. Cobum. World To-day. 
Cornwall, England, Land's End at. Arthur Symons. Harper. 
Country Local Improvement Societies. E. E. Rexford. Outing. 
Cowboy, Photographing the. H. P. Steger. World's Work. 
Crested Robber, The. Charles L. Bull. Cosmopolitan. 
Darwin, Poetry and Science in. B. Titchener. Popular 8cie7ice. 
Desert Lineaments. C. R. Keyes. Popular Science. 
Dlwan of Ahmed Ased-Ullah of Damascus. N.Duncan. Harper. 
Doctor, New Mission of the. Ray S. Baker. American. 
Elizabethan Drama, New Books on. W. A. Neilson. Atlantic. 
Employers' Liability. Prank W. Lewis. Atlantic. 
Empress Dowager of China, A Visit to the. World To-day. 
England from an American Viewpoint — I. Scribner. 
England's Unemployed, Salvation Army and. Rev. of Revs. 
English in Singing, The Use of. Francis Rogers. Scribner. 
English Examples at Metropolitan Art Museum. Scribner. 
Farm Brook, Power from the. Donald C. Shafer. Rev. of Revs. 
Farmer whose Son is Also a Farmer. E.Berwick. World's Work. 
Fifteenth Amendment. M. F. Morris. North American. 
Fire Waste, Our Shameless. S. H. Adams. Everybody's. 
Florida: A Winter Playground. Kirk Munroe. Outing. 
Flying-Machine: Key to World Control. Metropolitan. 
Flying Machines, Modern. Maximilian Foster. Everybody's. 
Germany, The Crisis in. Harry Thurston Peck. Munsey. 
Germany, The Year in. William C. Dreher. Atlantic. 
Gospel for the Rich, The. Charles F. Aked. Appleton. 
GospelsofLindau: Famous Jeweled Book. G.Teall. Cosmopolitan 
Graft in San Francisco, People's War against. World To-day. 
Great Blue Heron, The, and his Neighbors. H.R.Sass. Atlantic. 
Guinness, Mrs. Benjamin. R. H. Totherington. Munsey. 
Haystack, A $20,000,000. F. G. Moorhead. Outing. 
Haytian President, Setting Up a New. D. Buffum. Outing. 
Hetch-Hetchy Valley. John Muir. Century. 
Horses, Wild. Will C. Barnes. McClure. 
Hughes, Charles E. William S. Bridgman. Munsey. 
Humor, Every Man in his. H. W. Boynton. Putnam. 
Industrial Education, Need for. M. I. MacDonald. Craftsman . 
Ireland, The New — IX. Sydney Brooks. North A merican. 
Italian Immigrants of Tontitown. J.L.Mathews. Everybody's. 
Kennedy, Charles R., Two Plays by. E. L. Cary. Atlantic. 
Labor,— How it Will Absorb Capital. A. Carnegie. World's Work. 
Life Insurance Legislation. W. J. Graham. World To-day. 
Life Insurance Policies for Special Purposes. World's Work. 
Lincoln and Darwin. A. Sherwood. World's Work. 
Lindsey, Judge, Campaigning for. World To-day. 
Lions that Stopped a Railroad — III. World'* Work. 
Literature. The New. Atlantic. 

Matrimony, A School for. F. W. Crowninshield. Appleton. 
Meat, A New, for the Millions. Eleanor Gat€8. American. 
Milk, Fermented, Effect of. C. A. Herter. Popular Science. 
Milton. George A. Gordon. Atlantic. . 



Milton, The Many-Sided. H. T. Peck. Cosm,opolitan. 

Mission Bungalow in Calf omia, A. H. L. Gaut. Craftsman. 

Mommsen and Ferrero. H. T. Peck. Bookman. 

Mortality of Overweights and Underweights. McClure. 

Mount Huasoaran, First Ascent of. Annie S. Peck. Harper. 

Muck-Raking Trust, Horrors of the. J. L. Ford. Appleton. 

Musician, The, as a Money-Maker. L. M. Isaacs. Bookman. 

National Art, Progress in Our. Robert Henri. Craftsman. 

National Life, New Order in Our. W. A. White. American. 

National Mind Cure, Practicing. World To-day. 

National Societies, Foreign Associates of. Popular Science. 

Navajo Sheep-Herder, A. N. C. Wyeth. Scribner. 

Naval Administration, Our. G.W.Melville. North Am,erican. 

New England's Method of Assimilating the Alien. Putnam. 

New Year's Resolutions, On Making. Lippincott. 

" New York Sun," The. Will Irwin. American. 

Norton, Charles Eliot. Barrett Wendell. Atlantic. 

Old Salem Ships and Sailors — XII. R. D. Paine. Outing. 

Opera, Nationalism in. Katharine Roof. Craftsman. 

Opium Question. Britannicus. North American. 

Orange Grove, In a. E. P. Powell. Outitig. 

Pacific Coast Old Village, A. Clifton Johnson. Outing. 

Panama, Reminiscences of Past Centuries in. Putnam. 

Paris, He St. Louis of. Frances W. Huard. Scribner. 

Pearl, Quest of the. C. Bryson Taylor. Everybody's. 

Penal Code, Our First National. G.Sutherland. No. American. 

Petroleum of the United States. D. T. Day. Rev. of Revs. 

Philippine Teachers' Vacation Assembly. World To-day. 

Pinchot, Gifford : Forester. He wett Thomas. Review of Reviews. 

Playwright, The, and his Players. Brander Matthews. Scribner. 

Poe. W. C. Brownell. Scribner. 

Poe, Edgar Allan. Morris Bacheller. Munsey. 

Poe, Edgar Allan. George L. Knapp. Lippincott. 

Poe and Mrs. Whitman. Century. 

Poe as a Critic. Sherwin Cody. Putnam. 

Poe and Secret Writing. Firmin Dredd. Bookman. 

Poe from an English Point of View. Norman Douglas. Putnam. 

Poe in Society. Eugene L. Didier. Bookman. 

Poe's Lost Poem. John H. Ingram. Bookman. 

Poet of the Shadows, The. Agnes Lee. North American. 

Portsmouth Treaty, The. General Kuropatkin. McClure. 

Postal Savings-Banks, Need of. G. V. L. Meyer. Rev. of Revs. 

Potsdam, Picturesque. R. H. Schauflfler. Centtiry. 

Presidential Election, Meaning of the. C. A. Conant. A tlantic. 

Prosperity, Advance Agent of. C. M. Keys. World's Work. 

Puerto Rico, Colorful. Roy M. Mason. Outing. 

Physiology Class, My. Margaret Doolittle. Appleton. 

Reclamation Service, The. Forbes Lindsay. Craftsman. 

Retrospect, The. Ada Cambridge. Atlantic. 

Roosevelt's Opportunity. D. S. Miller. Popular Science. 

Root, Elihu : World Statesman. Walter Wellman. Rev. of Revs. 

Rudovitz Extradition Case, The. S.N.Harper. World To-day. 

Saint-Gaudens, Augustus : Reminiscences of. Century. 

Saloon-Keeper's Experience and Observations. McClure. 

Sand, George, and De Musset, Letters of — II. Metropolitan. 

Schneider, Otto J. : Etcher. Arthur Hoeber. Cosmopolitan. 

School and Family. J. McK. Cattell. Popular Science. 

Schools, Outdoor. C. Hanford Henderson. World's Work. 

Shaler, Nathaniel 8., Autobiography of — I. Atlantic. 

Shipsin Millet's Mural Decorations. Leila Mechlin. Craftsman. 

" Shipwrecker," The, and his Work. A. W. Rolker. Appleton. 

Silks, Dyeing of. Charles Pellew. Craftsman. 

Six-Shooter, The American. Emerson Hough. Outing. 

Smithsonian Institution. C.M.Blackford. North American. 

Snake Bite Remedies. R. L. Ditmars. Outing. 

South, The Solid. Hannis Taylor. North American . 

Spanish Corks of San Feliu de Guixols. World To-<lay. 

Spencer, Herbert, Career of. L. P. Ward. Popular Science. 

Stage, Appeal of the. J. L. Ford. McClure. 

St«venson, Some Rare Glimpses of . Bailey Millard. Bookman. 

Stout and Thin, Mysteries of. Eustace Miles. Metropolitan. 

Strathcona, Lord, and Mount Royal. Outing. 

Strobeck, Chess-playing Village of. World To-day. 

Suggestion, About. James J. Walsh. Appleton. 

Summer Cottage in the Ohio Woods. E.A.Roberts. Craftsman. 

Swinburne and the Elizabethans. P. V. Keys. North American. 

Tariff Revision and the Trusts. Herbert E. Miles. Rev. of Revs. 

Tariff Revision, Hon. J. A. Tawney on. Review of Reviews. 

Technical Education, Cooperative Cures in. World To-day. 

Trees, Surgical Treatment of Our. C. A.Sidman. World To-ilay . 

Tropical Island, Town, and River. Marr ion Wilcox. Putnam. 

Truant Boy, Reform for the. Charles Harcourt. Craftsman. 

Trust, The Benevolent. John D. Rockefeller. World's Work. 

Utah's White Canyon. John F. Cargill. World To-day. 

Venezuela. The Real. G. P. Blackiston. World To-day. 

Victoria, Queen — I. Mrs. S. C. Stevenson. Century. 

Water-Power. State Control of. C. E. Lakeman. Rev. of Revs. 



28 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 1, 



West, Opportunities of the. Henry P. Cope. World To-dav. 
Whistler, The Pennell Biogrraphy of. H. S. Morris. Uppincott. 
Whitman's Early Life on Long Island. W. Steell. Munsey- 
Woman, Problem of the Intellectual. Avierican. 
Woman, The Inconsequential American. M. H. Vorse. Appleton. 
Woman's Position — I. Duchess of Marlborough. No. American. 
Women of the West, Pioneer. Agnes C. Laut. Outing. 
Women who Work— III. W. Hard and R. C. Dorr. Everybody^t. 
World's Beginnings. The. Robert K. Duncan. Harper. 
Zangwill, Israel. Clarence Rook. Putnam. 



liiST OF New Books. 



[The following list, containing 86 titles, includes books 
received by The Dial since its last issue.] 

BIOQBAFHT AND BEHINISCENCES. 
The Story of My Life : Recollections and Reflections. By 

Ellen Terry. Illus., 8vo, pp. 407. McClure Co. $3.50 net. 
Jolm Pettie, K..A., H.B..S.A. By Martin Hardie, B.A. Illus. 

in color, large 8vo. pp. 278. Macmillan Co. |6, net. 
Pierre Le Toumeur. By Mary Gertrude Cusbing, Ph.D. 

12mo. pp. 317. Macmillan Co. $1.50 net. 
BecoUeotions of a New England Educator, 1838-1908. By 

William A. Mowry. Illus., 12mo, pp. 292. Silver, Burdett 

& Co. $1.50 net. 

HISTORY. 

The Conquest of the Qreat Northwest. By Agnes C. Laut. 

In 2 vols., illus., 8vo. Outing Publishing Co. $5. net. 
The Mystery of the Pinckney Draught. By Charles C. 

Nott. 8vo. pp. 334. Century Co. $2. net. 
The Sloops of the Hudson. By William E. Verplanck and 

Moses W. CoUyer. Illus., 12mo, pp. 171. G. P. Putnam's 

Sons. $1.50 net. 
The Adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment. By Horace 

Edgar Flack, Ph.D. 8vo, pp. 285. Baltimore : John Hopkins 

Press. $2. net. 
A Noble Company of Adventurers. By Rufus Rockwell 

Wilson. Illus., 12mo, pp. 219. B. W. Dodge & Co. 

GENEBAIi LITEBATUBE. 

A Literary History of Bussia. By A. Bruckner ; edited by 
Ellis H. Minns, M.A. ; trans, by H. Havelock, M.A. With 
frontispiece in color, large 8vo, pp. 558. " Library of Liter- 
ary History." Charles Scribner's Sons. $4. net. 

Letters of Mrs. James Q. Blaine. Edited by Harriet S. 
Blaine Beale. In 2 vols., 12mo, gilt tops. Duffleld & Co. 
$4. net. 

Writings of George Washington. Edited by Lawrence B. 
Evans, Ph.D. With photogravure portrait, 8vo, pp. 567. 
G. P. Putnam's Sons. $2.50 net. 

The Writings of James Madison, comprising his Public 
Papers and his Private Correspondence. Edited by Gaillard 
Hunt. Vol. VIII.. 1808-1819. 8vo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 455. 
G. P. Putnam's Sons. (Sold in sets only.) 

The Taming of a Shrew: Being the Original of Shakespeare's 
"Taming of the Shrew." Edited by F. S. Boas. 12mo, 
pp.126. " Shakespeare Library." Duflfteld & Co. $l.net. 

Henry Birkhead and the Foundations of the Oxford Chair of 
Poetry: A Public Lecture. By J. W. Mackail, M.A. 8vo, 
pp. 23. Oxford University Press. 

Self -Measurement. By William DeWitt Hyde. 16mo, pp. 74. 
B. W. Huebsch. 50 cts. net. 

NEW EDITIONS OF STANDABD LITEBATUBE. 

Selected Poenas of Pierre de Bonsard. Chosen by St. John 
Lucas. 16mo, pp. 286. Oxford University Press. $1.75 net. 

Oxford Library of Prose and Verse. New vols. : Selected 
Poems of William Barnes, chosen and edited by Thomas 
Hardy; Echoes from the Oxford Magazine, being reprints 
of seven years; Annals of the Parish, by John Gait, with 
introduction by G. S. Gordon ; Poems by John Clare, with 
introduction by Arthur Symons; War Songs, selected by 
Christopher Stone, with introduction by General Sir Ian 
Hamilton. Each 16mo. Oxford University Press. Per vol., 
90 cts. net. 

The Well of Saint Clare. By Anatole France ; trans, by Alfred 
AUinson. 8vo, pp. 302. John Lane Co. $2. 

The Fragments of Empedocles. Trans, by William E. 
Leonard, Ph.D. 12mo, pp. 92. Open Court Publishing Co. 

As You Like It. Edited by F. J. Furnivall, with Introduction 
by F. W. Clarke. " Old-Spelling Shakespeare." 12mo,pp.82. 
Duffleld & Co. $1. net. 

(Continued on next page) 



THE 

Mosher 
Books 

The only collec- 
tion of genu- 
ine hand-made 
paper books at 
popular prices 
in ^America. 



THE 

MOSHER BOOKS 

CATALOGUE 



My New Catalogue covering 
every title I have published, 
1891-1908 inclusive, is now 
ready, and will be mailed free 
on request. It is without ques- 
tion a bibelot in itself and as 
choice a production as I can 
hope to offer. 

Thomas B.MosHER 

PORTLAND, MAINE 



RIDDLES THAT INTEREST YOU 

** Is there another Existence after Death ? " 
"/s Intercourse with Spirits Feasible?" 
" Can the Sick be Healed without Drugs?" 

If you want the soundest, best worth knowing, on these 
subjects, order Kayon's "FADS or FACTS?" 75 cents; and 
Rayon's " THE MYSTIC SELF," 50 cents. 



FRANKUN A. 

M. 8. Publishing Company. 



ROBINSON. 

328 Wabash Avenue, Chicago. 



OUR JANUARY CLEARANCE 

CATALOGUE 

GOOD BOOKS 



WILL HAVE 
SOME 



THE PRICES WILL BE SO LOW THAT 

YOU WILL WANT TO BUY. 

Mailed on request. 

THE H. R. HUNTTING COMPANY 

SPRINGHELD, MASSACHUSETTS 



D A Dp and unusual BOOKS on South America, 
**-^^**^'-' Texas, Mexico, West Indies, etc. 

LATIN-AMERICA BOOK COMPANY. 
Catalogue on application. 203 Front St., New York City. 



BOOK PLATES FOR BOOK LOVERS 

The pen diaflgures your books. Order an individual plate and labels which 
identify, protect, and enrich them. Write for prices and free samples. 
C. VALENTINE KIRBY, Designer, 1455 Emerson St., Denver, Colo. 

MILTON AS A SCHOOLMASTER 

John Milton was bom in London in 1608, just three cen- 
turies ago, his birthday being December 9. One interesting 
and useful recognition of the ter-centenary, which will be 
valued especially by our teachers, is the publication by the 
directors of the Old South work in Boston, as one of their 
large series of Old South Leaflets, of Milton's famous little 
treatise on Education. A most remarkable treatise this was 
for its time. 

Price, 5 cents; $4.00 per 100. 



SEND FOB COMPLETE LISTS. 



DIRECTORS OF OLD SOUTH WORK 

Old South Meeting House, Washington St., Boston 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



29 



LIST OF NEW BOOK 8— continued 
A Flat Iron for a Farthlngr ; or, Some Passages in the Life 
of an Only Son. Illus., 12mo, pp. 235. "Queen's Treasures 
Series." Macmillan Co. $1. 

BOOKS OF VEBSE. 
The Burden Bearer: An Epic of Lincoln. By Francis 

Howard Williams. Large 8vo, pp. 200. George W. Jacobs 

& Co. $2.50 net. 
Poems and Sonnets of Louise Chandler Moulton. With 

Introduction by Harriet Prescott Spofford. With photogra- 
vure portrait, 12mo. pp. 476. Little, Brown & Co. $1.50. 
The Woman of Corinth : A Tale in Verse. By Hermann 

Hagedorn. 16mo, pp. 55. Houghton Miflflin Co. $l.net. 
Each in His Own Tongue, and Other Poems. By William 

Herbert Carruth. 16mo, pp. 129. G. P. Putnam's Sons. 

11. net. 
The Librarian of the Besert and Other Poems. By Harry 

Lyman Koopman. With portrait, 12mo, pp. 73. Boston: 

Everett Press. 
Leaves In the Wind. By Elsa Lorraine. 12mo, uncut, pp. 122. 

Oxford : B. H. Blackwell. 
Breath of the World. By Starr Hoyt Nichols. 8vo, pp. 272. 

G. P. Putnam's Sons. $1.50 net. 
The Days of Long Ago, and Immortality. By Warren E. 

Comstock. Illus. in tint, 12mo. Boston : Gorham Press. 
Poems. By Frances Rawlins lies. 12mo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 67. 

Boston: Gorham Press. $1.25. 
Nancy Maclntyre: A Tale of the Prairies. By Lester 

Shepard Parker. Illus., 12mo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 103. 

Boston : Gorham Press. $1. 

DBAMA. 
John the Baptist : A Play. By Hermann Sudermann ; trans. 

by Beatrice Marshall. 8vo.pp.202. John Lane Co. $1.50 net. 
The Wlnterfeast. By Charles Rann Kennedy. Illus., 12mo, 

pp. 159. Harper & Brothers. $1 25. 
The World and his Wife. By Charles Frederic Nirdlinger. 

Illus., 12mo, pp. 215. Mitchell Kennerley. $1. net. 

FICTION. 
The Stroke Oar. By Ralph D. Paine. Illus.. 12mo, pp. 24.5. 

Outing Publishing Co. $1.50. 
The Kiss of Helen. By Charles Marriott. 12mo, pp. 310. 

John Lane Co. $1.50. 
Armlnel of the West. Fy John Trevena. 12mo, pp. 351. 

Moffat, Yard & Co. $1.50. 
Chums ; or. An Experiment in Economics. By D. R. C. 8vo, 

pp. 315. New York : Gertrude Ogden Tubby. $1.25 net. 

TBAVEL AND DESCRIPTION. 

Bnwenzorl : An Account of the Expedition of H. R. H. Prince 
Luigi Amedeo of Savoy, Duke of the Abruzzi. By Filippo de 
Filippi, F.R.G.S. ; with Preface by H.R. H. the Duke of the 
Abruzzi. Illus. in color, etc., 4to, pp. 410. E. P. Dutton & 
Co. $8. net. 

Fighting the Turk In the Balkans : An American's Adven- 
tures with the Macedonian Revolutionists. By Arthur D. 
Howden Smith. Illus., 12mo, pp. 369. G. P. Putnam's Sons. 
$1 75 net. 

Pictures of Old Chinatown. By Arnold Gen the ; with text by 
Will Irwin. 8vo, pp. 57. Moffat, Yard & Co. $1. net. 

BELiaiON AND THEOLOGY, 
modernism: The Jowett Lectures, 1908. By Paul Sabatier; 

trans, by C. A. Miles. 12mo, uncut, pp. 343. Charles 

Scribner's Sons. $1 .25 net. 
The Foundation and the Superstructure ; or. The Faith of 

Christ and the Works of Man. By Richard Mead De Mill. 

8vo, pp. 392. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $3. net. 
The Living Word. By El wood Worcester. 12mo, pp. 351. 

Moffat, Yard & Co. $1 50 net. 
The Resurrection of Jesus. By James Orr, M.A. 12mo, 

pp. 292. Jennings & Graham. $1.50 net. 
Our New Testament : How Did We Get It ? By Henry C. 

Vedder. 12mo. pp 388. Griffith & Rowland Press. $1. net. 
Qospel Cheer Messages. By Polemus Hamilton Swift. D.D. 

12mo. pp. 346. Jennings & Graham. $1.25 net. 
How to Grow In the Christian Life ; or. Wells by the Way. 

By William Wistar Hamilton. 18mo, pp. 46. Griffith & 

Rowland Press. 
Christ Among the Cattle : A Sermon. By Frederic Rowland 

Marvin. Fifth edition ; 16mo, pp. 58. Troy, N.Y.: Pafraets 

Book Co. 

(Continued on next page) 



WILLIAM R. JENKINS CO. S?SS:rSS 

851-853 SI XTH AVE., Cor. 48th St., NEW YORK 

FRENCH r HEAD OUR 

ROMANS CHOISIS. 26 Titles. Paper 
60 cts., cloth 85 cts. per volume. CONTES 
CHOISIS. 24 Titles. Paper 25 cts., cloth 
40 cts. per volume. Masterpieces, pure, by well- 
known authors. Read extensively by ciasdes; 
notes in English. List on application. 



AND OTHEB 
FOBEION 

BOOKS 

Complete cata- 
logs on request. 



JAMES D. BRUNER'S 

HUGO'S DRAMATIC 
CHARACTERS 

" Able Hugo criticism..'''' — Courier-Journal. 
'\ Deeply interesting literary criticism." — The Dial. 
"A fine specimen of literary criticism of the inductive 
type." — The Outlook. 

GINN & COMPANY, PUBLISHERS 



I TYPEWRITE Reasonable Rates 5509 Greenwood Ave. 
MAKIITCr-DIDTC Expert Work CHICAGO 

iriAlX UOLKlr 1 a MYRTLE GOODFELLOW Tel. HP 6507 



MANUSCRIPTS 
TYPEWRITTEN 



EXPERT SERVICE 

MOnERATE FEES 
L. E. Swartz, 526 Newport, Chicago 



THE NEW YORK BUREAU OF REVISION 

Established in 1880. LETTERS OF CRITICISM. EXPERT 
REVISION OF MSS. Advice as to publication. Address 
DR. TITUS M. COAN, 70 FIFTH AVE., NEW YORK CITY 

'* %^t a^emoitief ot a ifailute " 

WITH AN ACCOUNT OF THE MAN AND HIS MANUSCRIPT. 
By DANIEL W. KITTREDGE. Cloth. $1.25 net. 

U. P. JAMES, Bookseller, Cincinnati. 

F, M. HOLLY 

Authors' and Publishers' Representative 

Circulars sent upon request. 156 Fifth Avenue. New York. 

WILLIAM BROWN 

Dealer in Old and Rare Books and Valuable 
Autograph Letters 

Will send his Catalogues free to Collectors on application. 
(For many years at 26 Princeas Street.) 

5 CASTLE STREET EDINBURGH, SCOT LAND 

RQQI^C ALL OUT- OP- PRINT BOOKS SUPPLIED, 

^^'^'^* no matter on what subject. Write us. We can get 
you any book ever published. Please state wants. Catalogue free. 
BAKER'S GREAT BOOK SHOP, 14-16 Bright St., Bikminoham, Kno. 

PRIVATE LIBRARY FOR SALE 

Rare and Valuable Books in Science, Mechanics, Literature. 
Shakespeareana. Prices low. Send for catalogue. 

JOHN C. PHIN, Paterson. N. J. 



FOR ANY BOOK ON EARTH write to H. H. TIMBY, 

Book Hunter. Catalogues free. Ist Nat. Bank Bldg., Conneaut, O. 



The Study-Guide Series 

Study-Guides for the Historical Plays of Shakespeare are 
now published ; for College Classes and Clubs. Send for list. 
Also The Study of Historical Fiction and of Idylls of the King. 

For Use in Secondary Schools 

The study of Ivanboe; A Guide to English Syntax; The 
Study of Four Idylls of the King — college entrance lequire- 
ments. Address 
H. A. Davidson, The Study-Guide Series, Cambridge, Mass. 



30 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 1, 



LIST OF NEW BOOKS — continued 
Fresh Water from Old Wells : Being the Wells of the Bible. 

By Robert G. Seymour. 12mo, pp. 214. Griffith & Rowland 

Press. 

ECONOMICS AND POLITICS. 
The Evolution of Modern Germany. By William Harbutt 

Dawson. Large 8vo, pp. 503. Charles Scribner's Sons. 

$4. net. 
The American Executive and Executive Methods. By 

John P. Finley and John F. Sanderson. 12mo, pp. 352. 

"American State Series." Century ( !o. $1.25 net. 
Some Southern Q.uestions. By William Alexander Mac- 

Corkle, LL.D. 12mo, pp.318. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $1.75 net. 
Our Wasteful Nation. By Rudolph Cronau. Illus., 12mo, 

pp. 134. Mitchell Kennerley. $1. net. 

SCIENCE AND NATURE. 
Mars as the Abode of Life. By Percival Lowell, A.B.. LL.D. 

Illus., 8vo, pp. 288. Macmillan Co. $2.50 net. 
The Freshwater Aquarium and its Inhabitants. By Otto 

Eggeling and Frederick Ehrenberg. Illus., 12mo. pp. 352. 

Henry Holt & Co. $2. net. 
Children and Gardens. By Gertrude Jekyll. Illus., large 

8vo, pp. 110. Charles Scribner Sons. $2. net. 

AST AND ARCHAEOLOGY. 
Some Notable Altars in the Church of England and the 

American Episcopal Church. By John Wright, D.D., LL.D. 

Illus., large 8vo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 378. Macmillan Co. 

$6. net. 
French Prints of the Eighteenth Century. By Ralph 

Nevill. Illus. in photogravure, etc., large 8vo, pp. 242. 

Macmillan Co. $5. net. 
The Higrher Life in Art : A Series of Lectures on the Barbizon 

School of Prance. By John La Farge. Illus., 8vo, pp. 187. 

McClure Co. 
Drawings of Watteau. Illus. in color, etc., 4to. Charles 

Scribner's Sons. $2 50 net. 
The Monuments of Christian Rome, from Constantine to 

the Renaissance. By Arthur L. Prothingham, Ph.D. Illus., 

8vo, pp.412. Macmillan Co. $2.25 net. 
How to Appreciate Prints. By Prank Weitenkampf. Illus., 

8vo, pp. 390. Moffat, Yard & Co. $1.50 net. 
The Art of Painting in the Nineteenth Century. By 

Edmund Von Mach. Illus., 12mo, pp. 177. Ginn & Co. 
Lettering and Writing. By Percy J. Smith. 4to. Charles 

Scribner's Sons. $1.50 net. 

PHILOSOPHY. 
The Origin and Development of the Moral Ideas. By 

Edward Westermarck. Ph.D. Vol. II., completing the work. 

Large 8vo, pp. 852. Macmillan Co. $3.50 net. 
Principles of Logic. By George Hay ward Joyce, S.J. Large 

8vo, pp. 431. Longmans, Green & Co. $2.50 net. 

EDUCATION. 

Readings in English History. Drawn from the Original 
Sources and Intended to Illustrate a Short History of En- 
gland. By Edward P. Chesney. 12mo, pp. 781. Ginn & Co. 
$1.80 net. 

The Eleanor Smith Music Course. By Eleanor Smith. In 
4 vols., 12mo. American Book Co. Per set, $1.45. 

Plane and Solid Geometry. By Elmer A. Lyman. Illus., 
12mo, pp. 340 American Book Co. 

Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin, with Selections from 
His Other Writings. Edited by H. A. Davidson, M.A. Illus., 
16mo, pp. 386. D. C. Heath & Co. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

The Psychology of Singing. By David C. Taylor. 12mo, 
pp. 373. Macmillan Co. $1.50 net. 

Human Foods and their Nutritive Value. By Harry Snyder, 
B.S. Illus.. 12mo, pp. 362. Macmillan Co. $1.25 net. 

The British Journal Photographic Almanac and Photo- 
grapher's Daily Companion. Edited by George E. Brown. 
New York : George Murphy. $l.net. 

The Smoker's Year Book. By Oliver Herford ; illus. in color 
by Sewell Collins. 8vo. Moffat, Yard & Co. $1. net. 

The Philosophy of Living which is Loving. By John P. 
Pogue. With portrait and decorations in color, 12mo, pp. 157. 
Cincinnati: C. J. Krehbiel & Co. 

Report of the Librarian of Congress, and Report of the 
Superintendent of the Library Building and Grounds, for 
the Year ending June 30, 1908. Washington : Government 
rinting Office. 



M AGGS BROS. London, W. C, England 

Dealers in Rare Books, Prints, and Autographs 

Voyages and Travels. Early Printed Books. Illuminated 
MSS. First Editions. Sporting and Coloured Plate Books. 
General Literature. 

Also Fine Portraits and Fancy Subjects (chiefly Eighteenth 
Century). Early Engravings by the Old Masters. Modem 
Etchings by Whistler and others. 

Autograph Letters and MSS. of great Historic and Literary 

interest. 

Classified Catalogues post free on application. 

Customers' "desiderata" searched for and reported 

free of charge. 

THE PILGRIMS and Other Poems 

By NATHAN HASKELL DOLE 

One vol., 250 pp., Bodoni type. $2.50. (Japan paper, $5.00; 
illuminated title-pages ; full morocco, $31,00.) 

" Certainly there is nothing like it in our literature for origi- 
nality, daring, and breadth. . . . There is not a dull, common- 
place page in his book of more than two hundred pages. . . . 
No one can deny that for once the pious tribute of poetry to the 
Pilgrim Fathers becomes ' mighty interesting reading.' " — " The 
Listener" (Mr. Edward H. Clement) in the Boston Transcript. 

"The poems are lofty, elevating or witty, amusing or humor- 
ous, as the occasion offers. Mr. Dole has written a rare volume." 
— The Seattle Post-Tntelligencer. 

" Never before was I so impressed with the advantages of 
having our popular history treated as you have treated it in 
'The Pilgrims.'" — Mr. Erasmus Wilson of the Pittsburg 
Gazette- Times. Addre.. : JAMAICA PLAIN. MASS. 

Second-Hand Books 

" I will buy with you, sell with you, trade with you." 

— Shakespeare. 
Classified stock of nearly 100,000 volumes embracing all subjects. 
Separate departments for Theological works and scarce or out- 
of-the-ordinary books. Careful attention given to "Wants" 
and inquiries. Send for Monthly Bulletin. 

Books bought in large and small lots for cash. 

Theo. E. Schulte, Bookseller, 132 E. 23d St., New York 



BOOK publishers and book journals are 
alike sustained by a book public. The 
people who read book journals are the ones 
who buy books. Daily papers and miscel- 
laneous journals have miscellaneous read- 
ers, some of whom are bookish people. All 
the readers of a book journal are bookish 
people. The Dial is preeminently a book 
journal, published solely in the interests 
of the book class, — the literary and culti- 
vated class. 



THE DIAL is more generally consulted 
and depended upon by Libkariajsts in 
making up orders for books than any 
other American critical journal; it circu- 
lates more widely among retail book- 
sellers than any other journal of its class ; 
it is the accustomed literary guide and aid 
of thousands of private book-buyers, 
covering every section of the country. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



31 



The Home 
Poetry Book 

We have all been 
wanting so 

lonrr .^^^^ Edited by 

\\JV\.'^,^^^^ FRANCIS F. BROWNE 

Editor "Poems of the Civil War," 
"Laurel Crowned Verse," etc. Author 
"Everyday Life of Lincoln," etc., etc. 

"GOLDEN POEMS" contains more of everyone's 
favorites than any other collection at a popu- 
lar price, and has besides the very best of the 
many fine poems that have been written in 
the last few years. 

Other collections may contain more poems of one 
kind or more by one author. 

"GOLDEN POEMS" (by British and American 
Authors) has 550 selections fromjoo writers, 
covering the wliole range of English literature. 



"Golden Poems 



"GOLDEN POEMS " is a fireside volume for the 
thousands of families who love poetry. It is 
meant for those who cannot afford all the col- 
lected works of their favorite poets— it offers 
the poems they like best, all in one volume. 

The selections in " GOLDEN POEMS " are classi- 
fied according to their subjects : By the Fire- 
side; Nature's Voices; Dreams and Fancies; 
Friendship and Sympathy; Love; Liberty and 
Patriotism; Battle Echoes; Humor; Pathos and 
Sorrow; The Better Life; Scattered Leaves. 

" GOLDEN POEMS," with its wide appeal, at- 
tractively printed and beautifully bound, 
makes an especially appropriate Christmas 
gift. 

In two styles binding, ornamental cloth and flex- 
ible leather. Of booksellers, or the publishers, 
A. C. McCLURG & CO., CHICAGO. 
Price, $1.50. 




OUR LIBRARY SERVICE 

WE have recently supplemented our service to Lihraries. by 
procuring Out-of-Friut and Scarce Books, and by importing 
English books. 

Our EDUCATIONAL CATALOGUE contains a full list 
of Supplementary Reading, indicating the grade to vrhich each 
title is adapted. 

Our CLEARANCE CATALOGUE contains overstock at 
special prices, and an alphabetical arrangement by authors of all 
cheap editions of Recent Popular Fiction and Standard Library 
12mos in one list. 

Our LIBRARY CATALOGUE of 3500 approved titles, fol- 1 
lowing A. Li. A. lines, is of great convenience to small Ubraries. 

Our MONTHLY BULLETIN notices promptly every new 
book of importance. 

These Catalogues are sent on request. Three notable features of 
our service are : promptness, thoroughness, and low prices. 

THE BAKER & TAYLOR CO. 

WHOLESALE DEALERS IN THE BOOKS OF ALL PUBLISHEBS 

33 East Seventeenth Street, New York 



Have your Books, Magazines and 

Catalogues manufactured at 

reasonable prices by 

William G. Hewitt 

PRINTER 

24-26 Vandewater Street, New York 

Composition and Electrotyping 
a Specialty 



OF INTEREST 
to LIBRARIANS 



T X rE are now handling a larger per- 

' ^ centage of orders from Public 

Libraries, School and College 

Libraries, than any other dealer in 
the entire country. This is because 
our book stock, covering all classes 
and grades of books, is more com- 
plete than that of any other book- 
seller in the United States, enabling 
us to make full and prompt ship- 
ments. Also, because we have a well 
equipped department looking after 
this special branch of the business. 

A. C. McCLURG & CO. 

LIBRARY DEPARTMENT CHICAGO 



32 



THE DIAX 



[Jan. 1, 1909. 



y^iu^ 7y\<x.^ci/f> 



JL^^yJL 










l:5CURRENT 
LITERATURE 

i 



1 



<^ 



AN ILLUSTRATED 
NEWS MAGAZINE 
OF CURRENT' LIFE 
INDISPENSABLE lO 
BUS\' MEN & WOMEN 



u 



LITERATURE PUBLISHING CO. ^ 

fe.t 2Slh 5tr«rt, ^fw York ^. , ... ) H 



CURRENT Literature is an illustrated 
review of the world's opinions and the 
world's events. It keeps the busy man and 
woman thoroughly posted, and is an ideal 
magazine for every home — of interest to 
each member of the family. Every de- 
partment of human interest is treated: 



Review of the World. 
Persons in the Fore- 
ground. 
Literature and Art. 
Music and the Drama. 



Science and Discovery. 
Religion and Ethics. 
Recent Poetry. 
Recent Fiction. 
The Humor of Life. 



These departments are edited, not 
for specialists, but for intelligent men 
and women who wish to know what the 
specialists are doing, and bring to readers 
the thought-harvest of two hemispheres. 



There is nothing technical, dry or academic, but every page is alive, 
crisp and brimful of Just the sort of matter that we all want to know 
about and would be sorry to have missed. 

This magazine is not an organ of personal views or partisan interests. 
It is absolutely independent of any trammels, political, religious or financial, 
that might interfere with the impartial presentation of the truth as seen from 
many angles. The Review of the World (32 pages) is personally conducted 
by the editor-in-chief, Dr. Edward J. Wheeler, and comprises a compre- 
hensive summing up of the news of the world and its interpretation. This • 
department is of surpassing interest and value to its readers because it brings 
into proper perspective the big events of the month — the vital things, those 
that keep the world moving. 

Ask your newsdealer for a copy or torite um for a Sample, 2Sc. a copy, $3.00 a Year 

Current Literature Publishing Co., 41 W. 25th St., New York 



THE DIAL PRESS, FINB ARTS BlTtLDINO, OBICAGO. 



THE DIAL 

J! SEMI-MONTHLY JOURN/fL OF 



Edited by 
FRANCIS F. BROWNE 



Y"%T5i^^'' CHICAGO, JAN. 16, 1909. 



10 cts. a copi/. /Fine Arts Building 
$2. a year. \ 203 Michigan Blvd. 



IMPORTANT NEW BOOKS 



MODERNISM By PAUL SABATIER. $1.25 

A brilliant and illuminating expression of this important and deeply interesting movement by one of its most prominent 
and eloquent adherents. This book contains full notes and a number of the most important documents. 

" In ' Modernism,' Mr. Sabatier takes up the question in its very latest developments in Loisy, Father Tyrrel, and 
Dr. Schnitzer of Munich." — New York Sun. 

THE PSYCHOLOGICAL PHENOMENA OF CHRISTIANITY 

By GEORGE B. CUTTEN. $2.50 net; postpaid $2.75 

"A scholarly and successful attempt to summarize work in a field which has been scarcely scratched." — Brooklyn Citizen. 

" All the fundamental questions connected with psychology and religion are treated in this volume, and they are treated 

with great intellectual force and earnestness. It will take front rank in the recent psychological and religious productions." 

— 'J'he Examiner. 

By W. F. ADENEY 

2.50 net; postpaid $2.75 

A new volume in the International Theological Library. A scholarly and authoritative history of the main body of the 
Church throughout the Eastern provinces of Christendom, until this became more and more limited in area, and, also, of 
the separate churches. 



THE GREEK AND EASTERN CHURCHES 



W^t &ucce00ful 25Dok0 of tlie ^t^t 



BIOORAPHY— ILLUSTRATED BOOKS 

RICHARD MANSFIELD 

By PAUL WILSTACH 
3d Edition Illustrated. $3.50 net; postpaid $3.85 

"A spirited and attractive book in the most fascinating 
of all branches of biography — the lives of players."— P/itia- 
delphia Press. 

A CHRONICLE OF FRIENDSHIPS 

By WILL H. LOW 
4th Edition Illustrated. $3.00 net; postpaid $3.30 

"A fascinating and beautiful book."— Jndianapoits iVews. 

A MOTOR FLIGHT THROUGH FRANCE 

By EDITH WHARTON 
3d Edition Illustrated. $2.00 net; postpaid $2.20 

' 'The most beautiful book of European travel since Maurice 
Hewlett's ' The Road in Tuscany.'" — London Daily Neivs. 

POETR Y, ESSA Y8, ETC. 

IN A NEW CENTURY 

By E. S. MARTIN 
3d Edition $1.50 net; postpaid $1.60 

"His sturdy, uncompromising stand for truth and civic 
and personal righteousness is cloistered in a form of grace, 
and sparkles with the irony admissible in a thoroughly 
refined novel." — The Outlook. 

FICTION 

PETER By F. HOPKINSON SMITH 
8th Edition Illustrated. $1.50 

" A novel that has qualities of enduring value that will 
cause it to be read and re-read for years." — The Observer. 



CHATEAU AND COUNTRY LIFE 
IN FRANCE 

By MARY KING WADDINGTON 
3d Edition Illustrated. $2.50 net; postpaid $2.75 

" She seems to have gotten to the very heart of French 
life, and she can describe it with a positively artistic appre- 
ciation." — Neiv York Tribune. 

OUT OF DOORS IN THE 
HOLY LAND 

By HENRY VAN DYKE 
2d Edition 12 illus. in colors. $1.50 net; postpaid, $1.60 

"Much has been written about the Holy Land, but no 
book has given so clear a conception of its atmosphere as 
this one." — Baltimore News. 

THE HOUSE OF RIMMON 

By HENRY VAN DYKE 
2d Edition Frontispiece. $1.00 net; postpaid $1.10 

" The characters are strongly drawn, the langruage like 
noble music, the descriptions are entrancingly beautiful, 
the atmosphere and setting perfect."— United Presby- 
terian. 

KINCAID'S BATTERY 

By GEORGE W. CABLE 
2d Edition Illustrated. $1.50 

" It is impossible to speak in terms of exaggeration of 
the enchanting manner in which he describes the modes 
and manners of the ancient city as they were affected by 
the strife which tore the sections." — Atlanta Constitution, 



THE TRAIL OF THE LONESOME PINE 

6th Edition By JOHN FOX, JR. 

''^ The finest novel of Kentucky life ever written." — Rochester Post-Erpress. 
"Strong and sweet, clean and human, and eternally optimistic." — Cleveland Leader. 



Illustrated. $1.50 



CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS 



153 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK 



34 



THE DIAJ^ 



[Jan. 16, 1909. 



The New Macmillan Books 

**By far the best popular life of Lincoln ever published ** 

Abraham Lincoln The Boy and the Man 

By James Morgan illustrated, $i.so. 

The Chicago Tribune in an editorial which refers to it as one of three books recommended to its readers — 
and the best of the three — says, " It tells the life story well. It is interesting. It is well written. It 
g^ves the significant facts one wants to know." 



NEW AND FORTHCOMING MACMILLAN BOOKS 



EUla Higginson's 
• Alaska, the Great Country 

" The book is a rare example of the skill to animate 
and transmit artistically her knowledge . . . and 
that appreciative sympathy which secures for her 
book marked distinction amongst the works on 
Alaska." says one reader of this beautifully illus- 
trated book. Clot?i, $2.25 net; by mail, $2.U1. 

Mr. F. Marion Crawford's 
Southern Italy and Sicily 

is the fullest, most tangible, and vivid description of 
the region about Messina obtainable. 

Cloth, $2.50 net; by mail, $2.72. 

Lord Avebury's new book 
Peace and Happiness 

By the writer who is even yet better known to many 
readers as Sir John Lubbock, author of " The Pleas- 
ures of Life." Cloth, 8vo. Ready Feb. S. 

A new Edition of 

Col. J. H. Patterson S stirring book 

The Man-Eaters of Tsavo 

President Roosevelt has said that one of the most 
remarkable books of adventure ever written is this 
story of a running fight between railroad builders 
and man-eating lions in Uganda. 

Cloth, illustrated, $1.75 net; by mail, $1.87. 

Artificial Waterways and 
Commercial Development 
By A. Barton Hepburn, LL.D. 

Author of " The Contest for Sound Money." 

Cloth, 8vo. $1.00 net. Heady this week. 

By David C. Taylor 

The Psychology of Singing 

" Of unusual value and may mark the beginning of a 
new epoch in vocal instruction." — The Nation. 

Cloth, 12mo, $1.50 net; by mail, $1.62. 



To be ready early in February. 

By Dr. Henry C. King 
The Laws of Friendship 

By the author of "Rational Living," " The Seeming 
Unreality of the Spiritual Life," etc. Cloth, 12mo. 

A new book by the author of " The Inward Light." 

One Immortality 
By H. Fielding Hall 

A study of the ideal of marriage in the form of a novel 
written with this author's characteristic beauty of 
thought and style. Cloth, $1.50. 

The Three Brothers A new novel 
By Eden Phillpotts 

Author of "Children of the Mist," "The Secret 
Woman," etc. Cloth, 12mo, $1.50. 



By 



"The Singer's Trilogy "„/ novels 

F. Marion Crawford including 

Fair Margaret Bach 

Cloth, 



The Prinnadonna 
The Diva's Ruby 



$1.60. 



The Cyclopedia of 

American Agriculture 

edited by L. H. Bailey, Cornell University, chairman 
of the Commission on Country Life, is completed by 
the issue of the fourth volume soon to appear. 

I. Farms, Climates, Soils, etc. 

II. Farm Crops (individually in detail) 

III. Farm Animals 

IV. The Farm and the Community. 

The Growth of Nationalities 

Vol. XL of The Cambridge Modern History 

The set is already a standard recognized as indis- 
pensable in any serious study of modern history. To 
be complete in 12 volumes. 

Fach Vol., $i. net; carriage extra. 



Miss Zona Gale's new novel Friendship Village 

" There is quite as much pathos in Friendship Village as of humor, and Miss Gale has treated such passages 
in its life with a delicacy and tenderness that will endear her to every one who has loved Drumtochty for 
its fine humanity, Thrums for its quaint simplicity, and Cranford for its true pictures of life." — St. Paul 
Dispatch. Cloth, $1.50. 



PUBLISHED 
BY 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 



64-66 Fifth Ave., 
NEW YORK 



THE DIAL 

31 S>tmi'MonW^^ Journal of Eiteratg €titki&m, ©taniggton, anti Infomtatton. 



THE DIAL (founded in 1880) is published on the 1st and 16th oj 
each month. Terh8 of Subscbiption, 82. a year in advance, postage 
prepaid in the United States, and Mexico; Foreign and Canadian 
postage 50 cents per year extra. Remittances should be by check, or 
by express or postal order, payable to THE DIAL COMPANY. 
Unless otherwise ordered, subscriptions will begin with the current 
number. When no direct request to discontinue at expiration of sub- 
scription is received, it is assumed that a continuance of the subscription 
is desired. Adveetisino Rates furnished on application. All com- 
tnunications should be addressed to 

THE DIAL, Fine Arts Building, Chicago. 

Entered as Second-Class Matter October 8, 1892, at the Post Office 
at Chicago, Illinois, under Act of March 3, 1879. 



No. 543. 



JANUARY 16, 1909. Vol. XLVL 



Contents. 

THE NEW REALISM .... 



PAOB 

35 

CASUAL COMMENT 37 

Professor Rudolf Eucken. — The indisputable 
claims of Greek literature and art. — The excite- 
ment of reading an index. — The new journalism 
in China. — The making of many monographs. — 
The public library habit in olden times. — Mr. 
Spofford's successor at Washington. — The Berlin 
Royal Library's ampler quarters. — New York's 
" New Theatre." — The possibilities of the corre- 
spondence school. — Mrs. Ward in a new environ- 
ment. — The literature of library economy. 

COMMUNICATIONS 40 

Esperanto and the Esperantists. E. Le. Clercq. 
" Biographized " as a Dictionary Word. Titus M. 
Coan. 

FIFTY YEARS AN ACTRESS. Percy F. Bickndl. 41 

THE UNITED STATES IN THE GAME OF 

WORLD POLITICS. Frederic Austin Ogg . 43 

EARLY SPANISH ARTS AND CRAFTS. George 

Griffin Brownell 45 

THE YOUTH OF MIRABEAU. Henry E. Bourne. 48 

RECENT AMERICAN POETRY. William Morton 

Payne 48 

The Poems of Edmund Clarence Stedman. — The 
Poems of Richard Watson Gilder. — The Poems 
and Sonnets of Louise Chandler Moulton. — 
Hughes's James Vila Blake as Poet. — Cheney's 
The Time of Roses. — Smith's Poems. — Herbert's 
First Poems. — Braithwaite's The House of Falling 
Leaves. — Gibson's The Wounded Eros. — Carruth's 
Each in His Own Tongue. — Middleton's Love Songs 
and Lyrics. — Dalliba's An Earth Poem. — Ives's 
Out-Door Music. — Poole's Mugen. 

BRIEFS ON NEW BOOKS 52 

Mr. Chesterton's confession of faith. — A new poeti- 
cal rendering of the ^neid. — Factors in the 
creation of the American drama. — Essays on 
Elizabethan dramatists. — Current topics trench- 
antly treated. — An unconvincing theory of mind. — 
A plea for personality in education. — Studies of our 
national life and progress. — The story of our 
whaling industry in America. 

NOTES 56 

LIST OF NEW BOOKS 57 



THE NEW REALISM. 



Some twenty years ago, Mr. Howells said, in 
terms that invited much sarcastic comment, that 
" the art of fiction has, in fact, become a finer 
art than it was with Dickens and Thackeray. 
We could not suffer the confidential attitude of 
the latter, nor the mannerism of the former, 
any more than we could endure the prolixity of 
Richardson or the coarseness of Fielding." But 
it seems fair to urge that we do suffer the con- 
fidential attitude of, let us say, Mr. DeMorgan, 
and the mannerism of Sir George Meredith 
without feeling that we are going critically very 
far wrong. And we can without much difficulty 
fancy some critic a score of years hence won- 
dering how it was that much popular fiction of 
the period about 1900 could have been taken 
for serious literature, in view of its lack-lustre 
manner, its photographic hardness of line, its 
preoccupation with trivialities, and its dulness 
of imagination. Our supposititious critic would 
be as wide of the truth, as unjust in his balanc- 
ing of values, as was his actual prototype above 
cited, and both would appear, to a vision trained 
in observation of the ebb and flow of literary 
fashions, to have mistaken the accident for the 
substance, to have failed in discernment of the 
qualities which make literature vital and en- 
during. 

The pressure of every age remoulds the stuff 
of life to its own liking, and invests it with the 
garb of what at the given time passes for reality. 
A clothes-philosophy is as needful for the under- 
standing of literature as Carlyle showed it to be 
for the understanding of morals, but criticism 
does not often get far enough away from its 
object to see the trappings for what they are, 
or to distinguish true from sham reality. It is 
universal life that really matters, not the guise 
that life assumes in any particular age. As Mr. 
Woodberry says, " The secret of appreciation 
is to share the passion for life that literature 
itself exemplifies and contains : out of real ex- 
perience, the best that one can have, to possess 
oneself of that imaginary experience which is 
the stuff of larger life and the place of the ideal 
expansion of the soul, the gateway to which is 
art in all forms and primarily literature ; to 
avail oneself of that for pleasure and wisdom 



36 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 16, 



and fulness of life." It is well, for most of us 
it is necessary even, that life should be con- 
stantly presented anew, since its familiar modes 
are those which are most likely to bring to our 
consciousness its more secret and intimate mes- 
sage. This principle concerns the historian, 
no less than the novelist or the poet. Signor 
Ferrero just now is giving a new reality to the 
annals of ancient Kome by relating them from 
the sociological angle of vision whence our 
present-day consciousness finds it most natural 
to view human affairs, whether past or present. 
He tells the same old story, but gives it fresh 
effectiveness by linking with it all sorts of 
familiar associations. So the imaginative writer 
will make his strongest appeal by keeping close 
to an idiom that is understanded of the people, 
only he must not, upon peril of swift f orgetf ul- 
ness, lapse from the essential dignity of his 
mission, or forget that he is one of the long 
succession of torch-bearers that are lighting the 
path of humanity pressing toward its ultimate 
goal. 

Mr. Henry Mills Alden has recently given us 
a whole book about what he calls "the new real- 
ism," " the new literature," and "the new psychi- 
cal era," and he really seems to think that the 
thoughts of men, as expressed in their imagina- 
tive writings, have become so " widened with the 
process of the suns," so clarified by science and 
philosophy, that literature has at last come to 
its full stature. The works of Scott were mere 
literary gropings in comparison with the novels 
of " the greatest master of English fiction," Mr. 
Thomas Hardy, or even with the writings of the 
modern magazinist, whose firm and assured step 
makes the great men of the past seem stumblers 
by comparison. A new " Faerie Queene" wordd 
be unwelcome to-day, and a new " Republic " 
would fall upon dull ears. " We do not want 
another Dickens. We are willing to turn him 
over with that other old playwright, Shake- 
speare, to the tender mercies of Tolstoy." 
The modern magazine, that instrument which 
brings the writer " into intimate accord with the 
idiomatic expression of a general audience," has 
so refined our standards that the present age 
" may be said to be the only one which has the 
complete retrospect within the range of its clear 
vision and catholic appreciation." If we mod- 
erns, in comparison with our predecessors in 
literature, " do not loom up in so singular and 
striking eminences, we strike deeper and have a 
broader vision." 

As these amazing dicta multiply in Mr. 



Alden's pages, we grow more and more bewil- 
dered. One William Smith, an estimable con- 
tributor to " Blackwood's Magazine," was, we 
are told, the author of the " two greatest philo- 
sophical novels in the English language," — but 
we defy all casual readers, and most students of 
English literature, to name them. The phrase, 
" from Sidney Smith to Charles Whibley," is at 
least a singular way of designating the line of 
" the great English essayists." And we never 
saw quite such a jumble of names — some fairly 
noteworthy and some absolutely insignificant — 
as Mr. Alden gives us upon a single page (179) 
by way of exemplifying "the new quality of 
imaginative writing." It would be unkind for 
us even to mention some of them in such a con- 
nection, and the best of them seem but shadows 
when compared with the names of the beacon 
lights of our literature. We can easily agree 
with the author when he says: "Mrs. Ward 
is probably not a greater genius than Fielding, 
any more than the intellect of Herbert Spencer 
was greater than that of Aristotle, or the crea- 
tive power of Tennyson mightier than that of 
^schylus." But what are we to make of the 
implied suggestion that the members of such 
strangely-assorted couples are for one moment 
to be thought of as occupying the same intel- 
lectual plane? 

We have made some effort to find out just 
what are the qualities of " the new realism" that 
Mr. Alden claims to have discovered. As far 
as his elusive method admits of logical statement, 
such passages as the following offer the best 
available clues to his thought : 

" We take the evil along with the good, making no 
problem of their reconcilement, since they are elements 
in a natural solution." 

" Literature, rejecting the unreal, has become homely 
of feature, with home-like sympathies, graces, and 
charms, and at the same time more subtle and wonder- 
ful in its disclosure of the deep truths of life than it ever 
was in its detachment from life or in its reflection of a 
life which has not found its true centre in a spiritual 
harmony and was therefore itself untrue, wearing all 
sorts of illusive or monstrous disguises." 

"The very content of the art, the kind of human 
phenomena emerging at the stage of psychical evolution 
which we have reached, is unprecedented. All the old 
signs fail us ; the well-worn tokens have given place to 
an ever-fresh coinage. The creations of the human 
spirit are wholly its own, born of it, not made in con- 
formity with any logical proposition or mental notion, 
and they bear no stamp of extraneous authority; what- 
ever of divinity they may have is in their purely human 
genesis." 

"Formerly the imagination dwelt in the house of 
Fame, exalting heroic or saintly deeds and personali- 
ties; now it is not busy with things that are memo- 



,1909.] 



THE DIAL 



37 



rable or monumentally lasting; it dwells in the house 
of Life." 

This is the best that we can do in the way of 
exposition. Probably these ideas are all implicit 
in the single phrase, " It is the mild season in 
literature," which evokes our hearty agreement, 
although we cannot interpret the saying in Mr. 
Alden's sense. It is certainly a mild kind of 
literature that is purveyed by the type of maga- 
zine with which the author has been associated 
for forty years, but all its graces and refine- 
ments cannot disguise its obvious lack of virility 
and penetrating vision. 

To support his thesis respecting the new real- 
ism, Mr. Alden is forced to postulate a new 
Jiuman nature, and he does not balk at the 
necessity. Since 1870, he tells us, there has 
been " a new era of psychical evolution, involv- 
ing something far deeper than an increased re- 
finement in manners — a revolution in human 
thought and feeling, a changed attitude toward 
life and the world." Furthermore, " within 
the memory of men who have reached the age 
of fifty the human spirit has found its true 
centre of active development and of interpreta- 
tion — its real modernity, which does not mean 
the depreciation of the past, but a deeper and 
truer appreciation, nor any break in the con- 
tinuity of culture, which is rather led into 
fresher and more fertile fields of expansion." 
We fear that this disclaimer will not avail to 
offset that " depreciation of the past " which is 
implicit in the whole argument of the book. 
However the fashion of literary expression may 
change from age to age, the substance of thought 
remains about the same, and in the deeper sense 
we have no problems that the ancients did not 
ponder. The angle of our vision is shifted, but 
the object viewed remains fixed. Mr. Alden's 
effort to reveal in this twentieth century a new 
literature and a new human nature seems to us 
nothing more than an elaborate mystification. 
And, far from taking our current modes of ex- 
pression to be praiseworthy, we think that they 
err in over-subtlety and preciosity. The London 
" Nation " recently said : " Irrationalism in 
various shapes is for the moment the dominant 
note in every department of life, and it is at 
least as powerful in philosophy as in sociology 
and in literature." As far as literature is 
concerned, we take this fact — since fact it 
seems to us — to be the direct outcome of our 
departure from the approved ways, of our fev- 
erish desire to find new things to say, and new 
ways of saying them. 



CASUAL COMMENT. 



Professor Rudolf Euckek, the winning " dark 
horse " in the Nobel-prize race — though it should 
not be for a nnoment thought that he was voluntarily 
or consciously a competitor — is an interesting and 
attractive as well as highly gifted man. Prominent 
in German philosophic and speculative thought for 
the last third of a century, this Jena scholar and 
writer and teacher was little known to the outside 
world until about six years ago. An idealist in 
philosophy, and a Lutheran in religion, he repudi- 
ates the notion, entertained by his friend and 
neighbor, Professor Haeckel, of a mechanical and 
necessarian universe and a materialistic origin of 
spiritual forces. The two men are earnest and 
enthusiastic students of the same great problems ; 
but how different the solutions they arrive at ! 
"Nobody since Martineau," says one who knows 
Professor Eucken well and is thoroughly familiar 
with his writings, " has written more eloquently or 
thought more deeply concerning the reality of a 
super-senaual world, the inevitableness of a self- 
revelation of divine purpose to the human soul, the 
necessity of a spiritual rebirth through ethical en- 
deavor, the freedom of man's moral personality, and 
its continuance beyond the limitations of space and 
time." His published works, which unite depth of 
thought, elevation of tone, and charm of style, are 
as yet little known to English readers ; but his most 
famous book, " The Problem of Human Life as 
Viewed by the Great Thinkers," is even now in 
process of translation into our language, and will be 
published soon. It is not surprising to learn that 
miracles have no place in his universe of law and 
order, that divine attributes have never been granted 
exclusively to any one man, that there has never 
been a special creation of the world or a special 
revelation to any favored race. In personal appear- 
ance, to one who visited him at Jena, Professor 
Eucken appeared as " a square-built man, a little 
under the normal size, blond in type, betraying his 
sturdy Frisian descent from a stock said to resemble 
most among Germans the English race. Threescore 
years have silvered his hair and beard and furrowed 
his brow. Nothing could surpass the simplicity, 
genuineness, and heartiness of his greeting. One 
could well understand the saying of his pupils that 
Professor Eucken wins not only their adniiration as 
a teacher, but their affection as a man." There is 
cause for congratulation in the better acquaintance 
with this man and his works that we are now in the 
way of making. , , , 

The indisputable claims of Greek liter- 
ature AND ART have a valiant champion in Pro- 
fessor Mahaffy, who has come all the way from 
Dublin to remind us once more, in a course of 
Lowell Institute lectures, that if we choose to for- 
get the glory that was Greece, and to make the 
" practical " the idol of our worship, we are likely 



88 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 16, 



soon to be confronted with the paradox that the most 
practical of all are the things that are beautiful and 
useless. Some of the lecturer's reported utterances 
outside the lecture room are worth quoting. To him 
Greek is by no means a dead language. " To con- 
sider a language dead which is the medium of com- 
munication of a numerous people is sufficiently 
absurd on the face of things. Its living importance 
is too little considered in the teaching of it. The 
mistake has been that students are not made to hear 
the language. Its study ought to be supplemented 
by discourse in modern Greek." He even maintains 
that the pronounciation of modern Greek is fairly 
close to that of ancient. The doing away with com- 
pulsory Greek in the college course he deplores. 
" An idea gets abroad that Latin wiU do ; but I 
notice that our finest type of scholar stiU takes 
Greek studies. As an examiner, I constantly have 
brought to my attention the difference between those 
who have and those who have not submitted to a 
drill in the classics. Those who come up for exam- 
ination in French and German make mistakes which 
no classical scholar would ever make. The ushers 
who teach the modern languages are not so proficient ; 
their services come at a cheaper rate, and a general 
relaxation of the standards of scholarship sets in." 
Surprising to relate, our Dublin visitor finds one of 
the strongest characteristics of American scholarship 
to be " its extreme laboriousness." He further says : 
" Professor Goodwin set the fashion with his Greek 
Grammar, and the rest have followed. . . . Amer- 
ican scholars tend to be more minute even than the 
Germans, and if they have a failure it is just that, — r 
the emphasis on the grammatical. In one respect, 
however, America ought to take the first rank, and 
that is in the finely systematized and organized 
libraries. I have noticed this wherever I have gone, 
especially at Harvard and Chicago." There is com- 
pliment in both the censure and the praise ; but that 
we are yet conspicuously at fault in being unduly 
minute and painstaking in our scholarship, is open to 
question. ... 

The excitement of reading an index may 
not be the most thrilling in the world, but, given a 
sympathetic and imaginative reader, it is consider- 
able. This is the season of the annual index — the 
way-finder to the past year's treasures of periodical 
literature. In his latest volume of essays Dr. 
Crothers expressed his preference for the dictionary 
if he were obliged to choose one book to relieve the 
tedium of solitary existence on a desert island. Far 
more stimulating, however, and infinitely richer in 
suggestion, would be a volume of Poole's Index. 
Opening the lajtest instalment of that indispensable 
work, we hit upon such attractive and curiously 
juxtaposed entries as the following : — " Revel of 
the Sacred Cats " and, immediately after, " Revela- 
tion, Divine, Need of Belief in "; " Determined 
Celibate " and, just before it, " Deterioration, Nar 
tional " and " ditto. Physical." The causal connec- 
tion between determined celibacy and national as 



well as physical deterioration — race suicide and all 
its horrors — is obvious. " Polly Stevens's Calf's 
Skin " vies in piquancy of appeal with three articles 
on Marco Polo that immediately follow. " Author- 
ship and Artificiality " has fine possibilities ; and 
so, too, it may be, to other eyes than ours, the page 
and a quarter of automobile headings may look 
irresistibly captivating. But the charm of the 
mysteriously suggestive is not confined to Poole. 
Take 80 apparently forbidding an index as that to 
the weekly " Financial Supplement " of the New 
York " Evening Post." In its twelve closely printed 
columns occur such richly potential titles as these : — 
" Hard Times, Meeting with Courage," " Hard 
Times, Enterprises which may be helped by," 
" Magnates, Illness of," " Optimists," " Chelsea 
Fire, Destruction of Capital seen in another Mood," 
" Chicago, one Industry there that is looking up." 
How comforting the assurance that while all other 
Chicago industries go about with eyes downcast, 
there is still one that bravely and hopefully looks 
up and not down, forward and not back, out and not 
in, and lends a hand ! Who, we beg leave to in- 
quire, can find this a dull world as long as there are 
indexes to read ? ... 

The new journalism in China is one of the 
forces making for the enlightenment of that vast 
realm. More than two hundred newspapers have 
been started within the last few years, and active 
measures are taken to ensure their being not only 
published but read. In some of the provinces the 
viceroys provide public halls where the illiterate 
gather to hear the news read aloud. Hitherto the 
chief newspapers of China were conducted by for- 
eigners and were mostly in the English language; 
and even now many native newspapers publish a 
column or more of matter in English. China ought 
to have a vigorous native press, for it is the home of 
what was, until a year ago, the oldest newspaper in 
the world — fifteen centuries or more old. It ceased 
publication because of its resentment at government 
interference with its claimed rights and privileges. 
It is expected that the modern newspaper will act 
as a powerful battering-ram on this Asiatic strong- 
hold of ignorance and superstition and stupid con- 
servatism. But the daily issue of a journal that 
uses type embracing eleven thousand different char- 
acters is an undertaking whose magnitude none but 
a compositor can appreciate. 
• • • 

The making of many monographs on economic 
themes was strongly deprecated by Professor Patten 
of the University of Pennsylvania in his presidential 
address at the late annual meeting of the American 
Economic Association at Atlantic City. In his 
opinion, our libraries are congested with those pon- 
derous volumes of transactions and proceedings, 
technical journals, and special studies, that accumu- 
late so rapidly, take up so much room, are so little 
read — and, let it be adde,d, are often such a source 
of bother aud perplexity to the cataloguer. He 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



39 



urges the economist to abandon the dry and tech- 
nical treatment of his subject, to write for the news- 
papers and magazines, and to " arouse the imagina- 
tion by striking phrases and vivid contrasts." 
Furthermore, spurning the pile of learned tomes 
bequeathed to us by the earlier economists, he does 
not hesitate to declare that " there is no renown 
worth having but that of the newspaper and the 
magazine and the class-room," and that "there can 
be no economic literature apart from general litei'- 
ature. We give the content to which others give 
the form. To separate ourselves from the general 
literary movements of the age is to deprive our- 
selves of influence, and literature of content." He 
exalts the editor, advises his hearers to desert the 
library for the sanctum, and speaks with no pro- 
found respect for the reputation based on books 
that no one reads. The economist should take his 
place on the firing line of civilization. "No fact 
is valuable to the economist unless it is also valuable 
to the journalist who summarizes events, the editor 
who comments on them, and the reformer who uses 
them." This manifestation, on Professor Patten's 
part, of a reaction from excessive specialization is a 
wholesome sign ; and yet it is also a danger signal, 
for it may serve as encouragement to superficiality, 
dilettanteism, the courting of popular applause, and 
various other sorts of unscholarly conduct. His 
exhortation is for the Dryasdusts ; let all others 

listen with mental reservations. 

« • • 

The public library habit in olden times 
was rather slow of acquirement, partly for the very 
sufficient reason that public libraries were few and 
far between, and also because, in this country at 
least, so many other things, of more urgent import- 
ance than keeping abreast of the literature of the 
day, were clamoring to be done. In the autumn of 
1754, just after a shipment of books for the New 
York Society Library had arrived from London, 
there appeared in the New York " Mercury " this 
timely and stirring exhortation : " We hope that all 
who have a Taste for polite Literature, and an 
Eager Thirst after Knowledge and Wisdom, will 
now repair to those Fountains and Repositories from 
whence they can, by Study, be collected. And we 
heartily wish that the glorious Motives of acquiring 
that which alone distinguishes human Nature (we 
mean Science and Virtue joined to the noble Prin- 
ciples of being useful to Mankind and. more espe- 
cially to our dear Country) will be sufficient to excite 
the most Lethargic, to peruse the Volumes pur- 
chased for this End by Means of the Advice and 
Endeavours of Gentlemen whom we and future 
Generations will have reason, we hope, to praise 
and extoU : and whom we cannot help saying are 
an Honour to their Country : We finally wish that 
New York, now she has an opportunity, will show 
that she comes not short of the other Provinces in 
Men of excellent Genius, who by cultivating the 
Talents of Nature, will take oft' that Reflection cast 
on us by the neighboring Colonies of being an 



ignorant People." " The History of the New York 
Society Library," with an introductory account of 
" The Library in Colonial New York " from 1698 to 
1776, has been well written by Mr. Austin Baxter 
Keep, and printed, for the Trustees by the De Vinne 
Press. , . . 

Mr. Spofford's successor at Washington as 
assistant librarian appears to be a man of mark. 
Mr. A. P. C. Grifiin, former chief of the division of 
bibliography, is endowed in no small measure with 
some of those qualities of mind and memory that 
distinguished his predecessor. No one has been more 
in demand on the part of congressmen and others 
engaged in " getting up " subjects for oratorical or 
argumentative or literaiy presentation. We are told 
that so much has bibliography become the warp 
and woof of his being that his brain is now a better 
and more complete catalogue than any the library 
possesses. Without a moment's warning he is likely 
to be called upon for information on any conceiv- 
able subject; but he is said to be unfailing in his 
resources. No library in the world enjoys the serv- 
ices of one who takes greater pains to satisfy the 
public ; and this unflagging zeal, and the quickness 
with which books or other material, or verbal in- 
formation, are forthcoming at the applicant's request, 
are a constant source of surprise to foreigners. The 
British Museum, the National Library in Paris, and 
the great Berlin and Munich libraries are justly 
praised for the careful service they render to all 
admitted to their privileges; but it is conceded by 
those who have worked in libraries both here and 
abroad that our methods are simpler and better, and 
our librarians and assistants less bureaucratic than 
those of Europe. It is the quick intelligence, the 
ready sympathy, and the well-stored minds of men 
and women like Mr. Grifiin that help to make the 
practical efficiency of our libraries unequalled. 

The Berlin Royal Library's ampler quar- 
ters, into which it will soon move, if indeed the re- 
moval has not already been accomplished, will make 
possible, one may confidently hope, far better and 
prompter service than was rendered in the old build- 
ing. Some of our readers may recall the tedious 
wait of twenty-four hours between application for 
and delivery of books under the old regime. No 
wonder German visitors to our great libraries are 
astonished at the quickness and informality with 
which the resources of those libraries are placed at 
the applicant's disposal. From the latest annual 
report of Dr. Adolph Harnack, general director of 
the great Berlin institution, it is interesting to learn 
that the library now has a million and a quarter 
volumes, that it employs forty-five librarians, fifty- 
seven assistants of both sexes, forty-five attendants, 
and so on, the whole force numbering more than 
one hundred and fifty. Last year there were lent 
344,000 volumes in Berlin, and 36,000 elsewhere, 
while the average daily demand in the reading-room 
was 888. Sixteen persons are constantly engaged 



40 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 16, 



in cataloguing, and the number of leaves added 
during the last twelve months to the catalogue — 
an ungainly, space-filling series of folio manuscript 
volumes — wsis about 6700, the number of titles 
about 18,000. The accessions, in new and old vol- 
umes, amounted to 57,000. The music department, 
now two years old, has received many gifts from 
music-publishers, and is already so important a 
part of the library that it furnishes employment to 
twenty persons. 

New York's " New Theatre," the corner-stone 
of which was recently laid — although the building 
itself is outwardly nearly completed — gives promise 
of achievement long desired by friends of high-class 
drama. And the wealth that is behind the enter- 
prise — wealth pledged to self-denial in the matter 
of pecuniary gain — inspires reasonable hope that at 
least monetary considerations will not bring to igno- 
minious failure this latest and most considerable 
attempt to elevate the stage. The reported plans of 
the administration make agreeable reading, to say 
the least. Only the best plays, whether classic or 
modern, are to be presented ; " stars " will not be 
encouraged to scintillate at the expense of the com- 
pany as a whole, which company, it is hoped, will 
be virtually an " all-star " organization, so that the 
playwright will be enabled to bring his conceptions 
to the fullest development ; a certain low annual 
rental the theatre will be expected to earn, but any 
income above expenses will go toward perfecting the 
work undertaken. The courting of custom is thus 
provided against (it is hoped), and also the necessity 
of earning a certain income will obviate the danger 
of altogether ignoring public opinion and succumb- 
ing to that complacent apathy which unfortunately 
characterizes some of the European subsidized play- 
houses. Further developments, with the opening of 
the New Theatre next November, will be watched 
with interest not unmixed with anxiety. 

The possibilities of the correspondence 
SCHOOL seem not yet to have been half exhausted. 
Not only can everything in languages and literature, 
in art and science, in trades and professions, and in 
almost every conceivable human industry, be taught 
by correspondence ; not only can one become a law- 
yer or a linguist, a painter or a plumber, a carpenter 
or (perhaps) a car-conductor, by subscribing to some 
inter-continental correspondence school ; but one may 
also hope by the same means to learn the most effec- 
tive method of courtship and, finally, to win a wife 
from the school's selected list of candidates for mat- 
rimony. Friendship, too, as well as love-making, is 
now taught by mail. In the advertising section 
of a London literary review occurs this item, most 
alluring to the friendless : — " To secure friends 
and friendships join the Correspondence Club, 
10s. 6d." If the correspondence method proves 
equal to teaching virtues and inculcating abstrac- 
tions, how widely beneficent will be its scope ! Pres- 
ently we may see classes started in the cultivation 



of bravery and modesty, of altruism and self-denial, 
of truthfulness and charity and self-control. The 
lowering of letter-rates, now going on, will help not 

a little in this matter 

• • • 

Mrs. Ward in a new environment excites 
one's curiosity. Will she, in her " Marriage k la 
Mode," which begins in the current number of 
" McClure's Magazine," succeed in avoiding those 
little betrayals of unfamiliarity with our ways and 
traditions that are all but inevitable in European 
pictures of American society? The story opens 
well, with a visit to Mt. Vernon on the part of the 
chief characters, and just about enough of reference 
to the historic interest and the natural beauties of 
the spot ; but a conversation, on the way back to 
Washington, between the hero and heroine, on the 
subject of divorce as practised in this land of free- 
dom, rather tends to wearisomeness and platitude. 
At any rate, it is not exactly novel to American 
readers. A passing reference to a lumber king of 
Illinois might (perhaps unjustifiably) suggest the 
query whether Mrs. Ward conceives of the Prairie 
State as still covered with primeval forest. What 
she will do for lack of English politics and English 
nobility to supply the necessary — shall we say 
longueurs ? — we wait with considerable interest to 
discover. 

The literature of library economy, already 
considerable in volume, is still growing. Although 
one cannot learn from books, or even by taking a 
course in a correspondence university, how to manage 
a library with entire success, it is indispensable to 
acquire in some way a right theory as the guiding 
principle of one's daily practice. A serial work 
descriptive of the methods pursued by the Newark 
(N. J.) Public Library has been undertaken by Mr. 
John Cotton Dana, with the aid of his assistants in 
the Newark library. " Modern American Library 
Economy " is the title of the work, and the first sec- 
tion of the first part — treating of " The Registration 
Desk," the Part as a whole having to do with " The 
Delivery Department " — is now issued from the 
Elm Tree Press of Woodstock, Vermont. Illustra- 
tions and facsimiles help to make still clearer the 
lucid explanations and rules. Mr. Dana's is no new 
hand in this domain of authorship, and hLs book 
promises well. 



COMMUNICA TIONS. 



ESPERANTO AND THE ESPERANTISTS. 
(To the Editor of The Dial.) 

The argument in your issue of the 16th of December, 
by an Esperantist, against reforms in Esperanto, is 
largely an attack against the person and motives of 
M. de Beaufront, one of the sponsors of the simplified 
Esperanto (" Ido "). These personal remarks I pass 
over without answer. 

It then goes on to aver that Esperanto can no more 
be simplified than English could. What a modest 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



.41 



comparison! English exists primarily for those nations 
that speak it to-day, the Anglo-Saxons; hence English, 
as a national language, is a fact. Esperanto claims to 
exist for the whole world; and since the whole world is 
still very far from speaking Esperanto, Esperanto as a 
world-language is still a project. English is the natural 
tongue of a hundred and thirty millions of men, and has 
had an individual existence for fifteen centuries; Esper- 
anto does not count a single man among its adepts who 
has learned it as his mother tongue, and it was pub- 
lished but little more than fifteen years ago. 

The correspondent proceeds to name Ostwald of 
Leipsic, the famous chemist, as an approver of primitive 
Esperanto. With the same right Washington could be 
described as a partisan of King George III., ignoring 
all of his later Revolutionary career. The truth is that 
to Ostwald, to the philologist Jespersen of Copenhagen, 
to the philosopher Couturat of Paris, and to some other 
eminent men, the very reform is due ; as they found the 
old Esperanto too full of crudities, cacophonies, and 
illogicalities, to admit of their endorsing it finally as an 
international auxiliary language. 

The contributor, speaking as self-styled advocate of 
the "new generation " (whatever he may mean by that), 
pleads for the stability of an artificial language against 
the reform attempts of "a band of childish malcon- 
tents." This childish band (see the names above) has 
given to Esperanto the firm principles without which it 
would be, and was heretofore, resting on sand, and 
remained at the mercy of any competent critic. In its 
simplified and corrected form, Esperanto is no longer an 
arbitrary mixture of Romance, Teutonic, Slavonic, and 
Utopian (that is, freely invented) roots, but it obeys 
the law of maximum internationality. Instead of 
copying in a slavish way the capricious and inconsistent 
word-building methods of Grerman, it now has a set of 
rules for forming derivatives according to the uniform 
dictates of logic. Instead of forcing on printing-offices 
an alphabet with half a dozen accented letters which are 
not met in any, even the least important, language in 
the world, it can now be printed with the ordinary 
Roman alphabet. Instead of emulating the Slavonic 
languages in sibilants, and an infantine wail in diph- 
thongs, it is now as easily pronounceable and as eupho- 
nious as Italian. Instead of dragging along a system 
of inflections as severe as the dead languages, it has 
now been modernized by applying to it the simple 
common-sense grammar of English. 

Primitive Esperanto was published about twenty 
years ago by a talented young man of no special philo- 
logical knowledge and of no experience ; what unbiased 
examiner can deny that the Parisian experts have ren- 
dered a service to the world by placing that layman's 
attempt on strong scientific foundations, and thus mak- 
ing it safe against the very changes from which the 
zealous correspondent professes to protect the coming 
generations? ^ Lk Clercq. 

Chicago, January 10, 1909. 



t S^to Kooks. 



Fifty Years an Actress.* 



"BIOGRAPHIZED" AS A DICTIONARY WORD. 
(To the Editor of The Dial.) 

In The Dial of January 1, page 9, I read: "Bio- 
graphized (the word is not in the dictionary)." But it 
is, and has been since 1887, in the greatest of diction- 
aries — the Oxford: with examples from Southey (1800) 
and the « Spectator " (1868). Titus M. Coan. 

New York, January 7, 1909. 



Thoroughly wholesome, warmly human, im- 
failingly good-tempered, and finely character- 
istic are the " Recollections and Reflections " of 
that long-time stage favorite, Miss Ellen Terry, 
whose book, bearing the main title, " The Story 
of My Life," appears after various complica- 
tions and misunderstandings that at one time 
threatened to cut short its serial issue before 
it had well begun. Reminiscences of the stage 
commonly have something of the glamour and 
fascination of the stage itself, and Miss Terry's 
rich store of professional memories, covering 
more than half a century, forms no exception to 
the rule ; but her notes and comments on persons 
and scenes and events wholly extra-theatrical 
are also full of interest, though necessarily her 
chapters treat most largely of actors and actresses 
and her own dealings with them. 

" A child of the stage " she calls herself, her 
father and mother having been players before 
her, and her own stage experience dating from 
1856, when she was but eight years old. Six 
out of nine brothers and sisters who grew old 
enough to feel the compelling influence of hered- 
ity and environment took to the stage ; and three 
are still treading the boards. There were, by 
the way, eleven children in all — which makes 
one marvel that the mother ever found time or 
strength to assume any other part than that of 
materfamilias. The manifest aptitude of the 
eight-year-old Ellen for the stage, as well as her 
strength of character even as a child, is illus- 
trated by her heroic behavior in a painful acci- 
dent that occurred to her when she was playing 
Puck in " A Midsummer Night's Dream " — 
her second part on any stage. Coming up 
through a trap at the end of the last act to de- 
liver the final speech, she had her foot caught 
by a too-speedy closing of the trap-door, and a 
toe was broken. Nevertheless, when she had 
been extricated, she stifled her screams and sobs 
and went through with her part, even as many 
an older player has been forced to forget per- 
sonal agony and go on with the mimic scene. 
The child showed herself true mother of the 
woman — and she had her salary doubled for 
doing so. 

Of certain malign influences to which all 
followers of the stage are more or less subject 
she thus writes in an early page : 



*Thf. Stoey of my Life. Recollections and Reflections. 
Ellen Terry. Illustrated. New York: The McClure Co. 



By 



42. 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 16, 



" Another thing I thought cruel j^ this time was the 
scandal which was talked in the thipter. A change for 
the better has taken place in this rq^ect — at any rate, 
in conduct. People behave better ubw, and in our pro- 
fession, carried on as it is in the pu|[lic eye, behavior is 
everything. At the Haymarket tlipre were simply no 
bounds to what was said in the greenroom. One night 
I remember gathering up my skirts (we were, I think, 
playing * The Rivals ' at the time), making a curtsey, 
as Mr. Chippendale, one of the best actors in old comedy 
I ever knew, had taught me, and sweeping out of the 
room with the famous line from another Sheridan play : 
' Ladies and gentlemen, I leave my character behind 
uie! ' I know that this was very priggish of me, but I 
am quite as uncompromising in my hatred of scandal now 
as I was then. Quite recently I had a line to say in 
' Captain Brassbound's Conversion,' which is a very help- 
ful reply to any tale-bearing. ' As if any one ever 
knew the whole truth about anything! ' " 

Charles Reade, who was the means of closing 
Miss Terry's second interegnum and of recalling 
her to the stage a second time, after her second 
trial of married life and domestic happiness, 
plays a conspicuous part in her book. Coming 
upon her by chance as he was riding in Hert- 
fordshire, where she had hidden herself from 
the world, he abruptly offered her the part of 
Philippa in " The Wandering Heir," at the 
New Queen's Theatre, of which he was the lessee. 
A laughing acceptance on what she thought he 
would consider impossible terms — she jokingly 
demanded forty pounds a week — speedily led 
to an actual engagement on those terms ; and 
thus the theatre-going world was not deprived 
of its Miss Terry, before it well knew what it 
would have lost. She thus sums up her impres- 
sions of that many-sided man of genius : 

" Dear, kind, unjust, generous, cautious, impulsive, 
passionate, gentle Charles Reade. Never have I known 
anyone who combined so many qualities, far asmider as 
the poles, in one single disposition. He was placid and 
turbulent, yet always majestic. He was inexplicable 
and entirely lovable — a stupid old dear, and as wise as 
Solomon ! He seemed guileless, and yet had moments 
of suspicion and craftiness worthy of the wisdom of 
the serpent. One moment he would call me 'dearest 
child'; the next, with indignant emphasis, 'Madam!'" 

Intimate memories of other and even more 
famous men than Charles Reade abound. Here 
is a pleasant glimpse of Tennyson, in that brief 
time when Miss Terry was known as " Nellie 
Watts": 

♦' In the evening I went walking with Tennyson over 
the fields, and he would point out to me the differences 
in the flight of different birds, and tell me to watch their 
solid phalanxes turning against the sunset, the compact 
wedge suddenly narrowing sharply into a thin line. He 
taught me to recognize the barks of trees and to call wild 
flowers by their names. He picked me the first bit of 
pimpernel I ever noticed. Always I was quite at ease 
with him. He was so wonderfully simple." 

With this picture of one poet, whom his young 



friend had no difficulty in recognizing as a born 
poet, contrast the following rapid sketch of 
another : 

" That Browning, with his carefully brushed hat, 
smart coat, and fine society manners, was a poet, always 
seemed to me far more incomprehensible than his poetry, 
which I think most people would have taken straight- 
forwardly and read with a fair amount of ease, if certain 
enthusiasts had not founded societies for making his 
crooked places plain, and (to me) his plain places very 
crooked." 

Miss Terry rejoices that, although similar 
attempts have been made in Shakespeare's case, 
they have failed. " Coroners' inquests by learned 
societies can't make Shakespeare a dead man." 
The boundless esteem in which Shakespeare is 
held by the writer, and her thorough familiarity 
with his plays, show themselves repeatedly in 
quotation and allusion throughout the book. 
Miss Terry's quick recognition of living genius 
is again illustrated by the following paragraph : 

" The most remarkable men I have known were, with- 
out doubt. Whistler and Oscar Wilde. This does not 
imply that I liked them better or admired them more 
than the others, but there was something about both 
of them more instantaneously individual and audacious 
than it is possible to describe." 

A good third of the volume has to do with 
Miss Terry's connection with Henry Irving and 
with the plays produced at the Lyceum. Speak- 
ing of Irving's aloofness and reserve and his 
inability or unwillingness to form intimate friend- 
ships, the writer questions whether anyone ever 
" really knew him." She believes that he never 
wholly trusted his friends, and she finds a pos- 
sible cause for this lifelong distrust in two 
experiences of his early days. 

" From his childhood up, Henry was lonely. His 
chief companions in youth were the Bible and Shake- 
speare. He used to study ' Hamlet ' in the Cornish 
fields, when he was sent out by his aunt, Mrs. Penberthy, 
to call in the cows. One day, when he was in one of 
the deep, narrow lanes common in that part of England, 
he looked up and saw the face . of a sweet little lamb 
gazing at him from the top of the bank. . . . With some 
difficulty he scrambled up the bank, slipping often in 
the damp, red earth, threw his arms round the lamb's 
neck and kissed it. The lamb bit him! . . . He had 
another siich set-back when he first went on the stage, 
and for some six weeks in Dublin was subjected every 
night to groans, hoots, hisses, and cat-calls from audi- 
ences who resented him because he had taken the place 
of a dismissed favorite. In such a situation an actor is 
not likely to take stock of reasons. . . . The bitterness 
of this Dublin episode was never quite forgotten. It 
colored Henry Irving's attitude towards the public." 

These are trivial incidents, it is true, but signi- 
ficant as helping to a better understanding of a 
rather enigmatic character. Miss Terry's cor- 
dial admiration, esteem, and even love of her 
illustrious fellow-player, and the whole history 



1909.] 



THE DIAJ^ 



48 



of her connection with the Lyceum Theatre and 
her noteworthy appearances on its stage, are too 
familiar to the general public to call for further 
reference here. Passing on to the chapter deal- 
ing with America, where Miss Terry made eight 
professional tours, we are tempted to quote her 
impressions of American women : 

"Beautifully as the women dress, they talk very 
little about clothes. I was much struck by their cul- 
ture — by the evidences that they had read fai- more 
and developed a more fastidious taste than most young 
Englishwomen. Yet it is all mixed up with extraor- 
dinary naivete. The vivacity, the appearance, at least, 
of reality, the animation, the energy of American women 
delighted me. They are very sympathetic, too, in spite 
of a certain callousness which comes of regarding 
everything in life, even love, as ' lots of fun.' I did 
not think that they, or the men either, had much nat- 
ural sense of beauty. They admire beauty in a curious 
way through their intellect. Nearly every American 
girl has a cast of the winged Victory in her room. She 
makes it a point of her education to admire it." 

Miss Terry is, naturally enough, attached to 
the old ways and the old days and somewhat 
doubtful of the superiority of the new. Yet 
she wishes not to be thought a fanatical wor- 
shipper of the past. " Let me pray," she ex- 
claims, "that I, representing the old school, 
may never look on the new school with the 
patronizing airs of ' Old Fitz ' and Fanny 
Kemble. I wish that I could see the new school 
of acting in Shakespeare. Shakespeare must be 
kept up, or we shall become a third-rate nation! " 

Again and again the writer laments her lack 
of experience with the pen. But, perhaps partly 
because of that lack, her chapters have a fresh- 
ness and life about them that attract and hold 
the reader's attention. Shrewd reflections and 
bits of keen womanly insight sprinkle her pages 
most agreeably. Speaking of some of Charles 
Reade's early counsel to her, and her own pres- 
ent increased facility as an actress, she says : " I 
am able to think more swiftly on the stage now 
than at the time Charles Reade wrote to me, 
and I only wish I were young enough to take 
advantage of it. But youth thinks sloicly, as 
a rule." And again, of eccentricity she writes : 
" There is all the difference in the world between 
departure from recognized rules by one who has 
learned to obey them, and neglect of them 
through want of training or want of skill or 
want of understanding. Before you can be 
eccentric you must know where the circle is." 

The book has a great abundance of appro- 
priate illustrations, especially portraits of Miss 
Terry and of Henry Irving in divers characters 
and at different periods of their lives. 

Percy F. Bicknell. 



The Unite^ 



iTATKS IN THE GAME OF 
ILD POI-,ITICS.* 



During the ^nter of 1906-7, the annual 
series of Harvaifl lectures provided at the Paris 
Sorbonne on ther'Hyde foundation was delivered 
by Professor Archibald Cary Coolidge, who, 
being a specialist in international history and 
politics, selected, very appropriately, as his sub- 
ject " The United States as a World Power." 
Under this same title the lectures, liberally 
recast, have lately been put forth in book form. 
With the exception of Professor Latane's 
" America as a World Power," the volume 
constitutes the only attempt that has been made 
to present at length and in a scholarly fashion 
the part which the United States plays, and has 
played, in the great drama of world politics ; 
and though Professor Coolidge's book is devoted 
predominantly to the decade since the Spanish- 
American War, it does undertake, as Professor 
Latane's does not, to bring before the reader 
the whole sweep of American foreign policy and 
diplomatic history since 1789. 

What is a world power ? And at what point 
in her history did the United States become a 
world power ? These are inevitable questions, 
but difficult ones to answer. Twenty years ago, 
the expression " world power " was practically 
unknown. To-day it is a commonplace of poli- 
tical discussion, though admittedly conveying 
often no scientifically exact meaning. World 
powers, as Professor Coolidge conceives them for 
purposes of his treatise, are those " which are 
directly interested in all parts of the world, and 
whose voices niust be listened to everywhere." 
Great Britain, France, Russia, Germany, and 
the United States belong unquestionably to the 
category ; Japan probably does, or at any rate 
soon will; China, Austria, Italy, Brazil, the 
Argentine Republic may eventually possess such 
world-wide importance, but at present do not. 

As to the point at which the United States 
became a world power, there is the widest pos- 
sible diversity of opinion. Early in the year 
1901 a foreign diplomat at Washington made 
the assertion that, although he had been in 
America but a short time, he had seen two dif- 
ferent countries — the United States before the 
war with Spain, and the United States since that 
war. This was an epigrammatic way of stating 
the generally accepted fact that the war of 1898 
was a turning-point in our national history. 
Whether the great change consisted in the pre- 

* The United States as a World Power. By Archibald 
Cary Coolidgre, Ph.D. New York : The Macmillan Co. 



44 



THE DIAJj 



[Jan. 16, 



cipitate conversion of the United States into a 
world power depends pretty largely upon the 
meaning one attaches to the phrase "world 
power." One school of writers maintains that 
the United States has always been a world power. 
Another holds that it has never been such, and 
is not such to-day. And a third contends that 
the dignity, and the perds, of the rank came 
only with the Spanish War and the acquisition 
of our colonial dependencies. 

Professor Coolidge evidently considers the 
United States as approximating very closely 
the status of a world power before the events of 
1898, but as in any case clearly exhibiting that 
character since the epochal changes brought 
about by those events. The first five chapters 
of his book comprise a rapid but suggestive 
sketch of the fundamentals of American foreign 
relations as developed during the first century 
of our national career. Particularly note- 
worthy in a volume of this sort are the discus- 
sions of " Nationality and Immigration " and 
" Race Questions," for these topics constitute 
aspects of America's world relations which are 
seldom taken account of from the present point 
of view. The space allotted to them affords 
evidence of the fact that Professor Coolidge's 
book is concerned, not simply with diplomacy, 
but with the international relations of the United 
States in the broadest sense. Somewhat orig- 
inal, too, is the query which is raised in a chapter 
on the seemingly threadbare topic of the Monroe 
Doctrine, as to whether this phase of American 
foreign policy is to have any bearing upon the 
relations of the United States with the Orient. 
Upon the territorial limits of the Monroe Doc- 
trine, Captain Mahan is quoted approvingly to 
the effect that " Europe construed by the 
Monroe Doctrine would include Africa with the 
Levant and India, but would not include Japan, 
China, nor the Pacific generally." This defi- 
nition, though admittedly arbitrary and not 
necessarily final, is declared to represent fairly 
well the present geographical limits of the 
Doctrine in the American mind. Obviously, 
the Americans, in forbidding Asiatic interfer- 
ence in the western hemisphere, cannot fall back 
upon the argument of reciprocity which they 
apply to Europe. 

The body of Professor Coolidge's volume falls 
into four principal parts, consisting successively 
of four chapters on the Spanish- American war 
and its effects, four on the recent relations of 
the United States with the world powers of 
Europe, three on the dealings of the United 
States with her American neighbors, and, finally. 



three upon the relations of the United States 
with the Orient. The treatment of the vexed 
problems connected with the acquisition and 
government of our colonial dependencies appeals 
to the reader as eminently sane. Prepared, as 
the chapters originally were, for a foreign audi- 
ence, they undertake first of all to recount 
accurately the history of the Spanish war and 
of the colonial acquisitions, and subsequently to 
set forth, in impartial though not colorless 
fashion, the controverted aspects of the Philip- 
pine question from 1898 to the present day. 
The conclusion is that it is yet " too early to 
sum up the results of American ride in the last 
eight years "; but for a clear and brief state- 
ment of the factors involved, one can hardly do 
better than read Professor Coolidge's narrative. 

The most striking assertions of the claim of 
the United States to be a world power are those 
which have been made in the Far East ; and 
probably most readers will agree that those 
portions of Professor Coolidge's volume which 
are concerned with American interests in the 
Orient are not alone the most timely but also 
the most carefidly considered. Following an 
historical chapter on the United States in the 
Pacific, the author analyzes at length the rela- 
tions of the nation, fii'st with China and secondly 
with Japan. With both of these powers, rela- 
tions are declared at present to exceed in intri- 
cacy and in difficulty, when not in actual 
importance, those with any power in Europe. 
And it is also asserted that the position of the 
United States on the Pacific offers it greater 
advantages, and imposes upon it graver respon- 
sibilities, in its dealings with China and Japan, 
than fall to the lot of any European power 
except Russia. With China the prospect of 
American relations is regarded as " clouded, 
though not disheartening," by reason chiefly of 
the inevitable American policy of Chinese ex- 
clusion and the friction which is more and more 
likely to spring from it. With Japan, the out- 
look is also distinctly less serene than formerly. 
Professor Coolidge, in speaking of American- 
Japanese relations, says : 

" We may as well recognize that the two countries 
can never again be on quite the same terms that they 
were ten years ago. Their feelings toward one another 
may be of the most cordial kind, but both have changed 
too much for the old relation, which was almost that 
of benevolent teacher and eager pupil, to be possible in 
the future. The Americans are no longer the mildly 
interested spectators in the Far East that they once 
were, and Japan has outgrown the need of their tutelage. 
In the past they have applauded her successes, some- 
times without stopping to consider whether these would 
in the end be to their advantage; and now they can 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



45 



claim no grievance if her altered position gives her new 
interests and inspires her with new ambitious which are 
not invariably in accord with their own desires. Amer- 
ica, who has grown to be the rival of so many older 
states, cannot complain when she in her turn is con- 
fronted by the rivalry of a younger one. The world is 
still large enough for many nations to compete without 
quarrelling; but when the aspirations of one conflict 
with those of another, it serves no good purpose to blink 
the truth. It is saner to accept the situation frankly, 
and to try to see what can reasonably be expected on 
both sides; for without such an understanding, a fair 
adjustment cannot be arrived at." 

One may well wish that Professor Coolidge's 
international philosophy were certain of univer- 
sal acceptance. It is at least comfortable to 
believe that the candor and logic with which 
he has written will not fail of effect wherever 
his volume shall be read. It is not often that 
a book is brought out simultaneously in three 
languages. " The United States as a World 
Power " has had that honor, appearing within 
a few weeks in English, French, and German 
editions. It is distinctly to be hoped that it will 
command the attention which the temper, per 
haps more conspicuously than the scholarship, 
of the volume so abundantly deserves. 

Frederic Austin Ogg. 



EARi,Y Spaxisii Arts and Crafts.* 



The publishers of " The World of Art Series " 
have done well to secure the author of " The 
Land of the Dons " to prepare for them a work 
on " The Arts and Crafts of Older Spain." 
Probably no man to-day, not a Spaniard, is 
equally familiar with that country. Long a 
resident of Madrid as correspondent of the Lon- 
don " Times," and now a corresponding member 
of the Royal Spanish Academy, the Royal 
Spanish Academy of History, and the Royal 
Spanish Academy of Fine Arts, Mr. Leonard 
Williams represents to this generation, as 
Richard Ford did to the last, the chief English 
authority upon Spanish life and customs. The 
present material could have been gathered only 
by one thoroughly conversant with the Spanish 
language and intimately acquainted with the 
libraries, public and private art collections, and 
the people themselves. 

Considered mathematically, the three vol- 
umes contain 834 pages, 173 full-page plates, 
and 97 titles of books consulted. Volume for 
volume the first is the best. In it the author 

•The Arts and Crafts of Older Spain. By Leonard 
Williams. In three volumes. Illustrated. Chicago: A. C. 
McClurg & Co. 



discusses gold, silver, and jewel work, iron work, 
bronzes, and arms. Here he shows himself at 
home, giving us the interesting results of long 
study under most favorable advantages. In 
the second and third volimies, which treat of 
furniture, ivories, pottery, glass, and textile 
fabrics, he quotes largely from Spanish and 
French authorities, accompanying his transla- 
tions however with a valuable running com- 
mentary. Surely a man may be excused for 
not showing the same degree of intimacy with 
all the crafts, from iron to lace ; while inasmuch 
as almost nothing has been published until now 
in English upon Spanish craftsmanship, the 
attempt to spread over the whole ground should 
not be censured too severely. 

Mr. Williams traces the history of each craft, 
and gives descriptions and photographs of its 
earliest and most important examples. Gold 
and silver objects, owing to their durability and 
the care given to their preservation, furnish 
some of the oldest specimens of the skill and 
taste of early craftsmen. Visigothic crowns 
stiU exist which date back to the seventh cen- 
tury. Many royal treasures of later ages, 
caskets, table ornaments, custodia, crosses, and 
altars have been guarded in private palaces or 
in those great storehouses the cathedrals. Often 
the delicacy of form or decoration proves the 
workmanship to be of greater value than the 
precious material. The names, dates, and spe- 
cialties of the most celebrated craftsmen make 
an interesting catalogue, but the list dwindles 
with the expulsion of the Moors and the dis- 
covery of America. By the time that the gold 
and silver of the New World began to pour into 
Seville the whole country was in an impoverished 
state and had lost her best native craftsmen. 

" Foreign artificers in consequence (parti- 
cularly after the royal pragmatic of 1628 
encouraging their immigration), attracted by 
the treasure fleets that anchored in the bay of 
Cadiz, came trooping into Spain and filled their 
pockets from the national purse, fashioning, in 
return for money which they husbanded and sent 
abroad, luxurious gold and silver objects that 
were merely destined to stagnate within her 
churches and cathedrals." A century later for- 
tunes were everywhere spent in luxurious dis- 
play, the very pies at banquets being washed 
with gold or silver. It is to this period that we 
owe some of the finest treasures preserved to-day. 
An inventory of the ducal house of Albu- 
querque is quoted, showing fourteen hundred 
dozen plates, with a corresponding number of 
gold and silver cups, bowls, trenchers, salt- 



46 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 16, 



cellars, and spoons, also a mighty sideboard 
mounted by forty silver stairs. This love of 
lavish display, and the satisfaction of it made 
possible by the sudden great wealth from 
America, together with the Spanish tenacity in 
preserving what is old, make Spain a more 
profitable field of study than many a more pro- 
gressive country. 

In iron work the splendid rejas or griRs are 
among the glories of Spain. Mr. Williams 
gives as much space as is possible in a work 
of this character to the subject, which really 
requires a book to itself. Unfortunately, views 
of but two of these fine screens are given, — 
those of Seville and Granada, the latter, enclos- 
ing the tombs of Ferdinand and Isabella, being 
a familiar picture to English readers. 

The chapter on arms is an excellent one. Into 
it the author has put his best work, while at the 
same time he has a most fruitful subject. He 
says : " Lovers of the old-time crafts approach 
a fertile field in Spanish arms ; for truly with 
this war-worn land the sword and spear, obsti- 
nately substituted for the plough, seem to have 
grown wellnigh into her regular implements of 
daily bread-winning ; and from long before the 
age of written chronicle her soil was planted 
with innumerable weapons of her wrangling 
tribesmen." Lovers of the Poem of the Cid 
will be pleased with the picture of a beautiful 
adarga from the Royal Armory. Mr. Williams 
states that the supposed Coladu preserved in 
the same collection reaUy dates from the thir- 
teenth century, and can therefore never have 
been the sword of the famous Campeador. The 
general reader will be somewhat surprised at the 
following information : " The Royal Armoury 
at Madrid is often thought by foreigners to con- 
tain a representative collection of the arms, offen- 
sive and defensive, used by the Spanish people 
through all their mediaeval and post-mediaeval 
history. This is not so. Although it is the 
choicest and the richest gallery in Europe, the 
Armeria Real was formed almost entirely from 
the cdmaras de armas or private armouries of 
Charles the Fifth and of his son, and is, as 
Melida describes it, ' a splendid gallery of royal 
arms,' dating, with very few exceptions, from 
the sixteenth century." 

The term furniture has been construed with 
siiflftcient liberality to include doors, doorways, 
choir-stalls, altar-screens, wood statues, and wood 
carving of all sorts. Perhaps the most typically 
Spanish article is the arcon or chest, of which 
seven classes are described. Respecting the Cid's 
coffer in the Cathedral at Burgos the author 



leaves us our illusion, saying : " It is certain that 
the archives of the cathedral have been deposited 
in this chest for many centuries. Evidently, too, 
it dates from about the lifetime of the Cid, while 
the rings with which it is fitted show it to have 
been a kind of trunk intended to be carried on 
the backs of sumpter-mules or horses." 

Throughout the book many side-lights are 
thrown upon the customs and daily life of older 
Spain by means of excerpts from chronicles, 
fueros, inventories, and municipal ordinances. 
The strict regulations governing the manufac- 
ture of various articles are quoted, and the dis- 
astrous legislation which resulted in the decrease 
of looms at Granada from fifteen thousand to 
six hundred is reviewed. The list of these 
sources and of the printed articles and books 
consulted forms one of the most important por- 
tions of the work. Indeed, this bibliography, 
together with the photographic plates, would 
alone have been well worth publishing. The 
plates are without exception excellent, being also 
refreshingly new and unfamiliar. They receive 
an added value by being labeled with the name 
of the collection in which the objects may be 
found, and together form a Spanish Musee de 
Cluny containing the gems of Spanish crafts- 
manship from the beginning. 

George Griffin Brownell. 



Thjs Youth op Mirabeau.* 



It is rare that an American scholar ventures 
to undertake a work like Professor Fling's 
" Mirabeau and the French Revolution," for he 
realizes that an adequate examination of the 
material, much of which is still in the manu- 
script collections of public and private archives, 
implies a prolonged residence abroad or repeated 
journeys across the Atlantic. The law of neces- 
sity has, therefore, forced American historical 
writing to cultivate alaiost exclusively the field 
of American history, and has left the general 
reader dependent upon " importations " for the 
knowledge he is to gain of European history, 
save as this may be found in manuals and brief 
biographies. Professor Fling should be credited 
with the courage of his undertaking. It has 
been truly a work of " longue haleine," for he 
chose his subject twenty years ago, when he was 
a student in Leipsic. At that time neither the 
biography by Stern nor that by the Lomenies, 

* Mirabeau and the French Revolution. By Fred Morrow 
Fling, Ph.D., Professor of European History In the University of 
Nebraska. In three volumes. Volume I., The Youth of Mira- 
beau. Illustrated. New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



47 



father and son, had appeared. The publication 
of these biographies has not lessened the im- 
portance of this contribution, for there does not 
yet exist in English an adequate treatment of 
Mirabeau's career. Professor Fling has entitled 
his work " Mirabeau and the French Revolu- 
tion," because he intends to deal with the 
Revolution also, at least so far as it is involved 
in the life of its greatest statesman. The seri- 
ous student of this period will find his discussion 
of the value of the- manuscript material, and of 
the printed books, especially opportune and 
instructive. It is characteristic of the thor- 
oughly workmanlike quality of the book. 

The first of the three volumes covers Mira- 
beau's life up to his imprisonment at the 
Chateau d'lf, September 20, 1774, by virtue 
of a lettre de cachet which that pecidiar " Friend 
of Men," his father, had procured from the 
government. Mirabeau was twenty-five years 
old, and this was the fourth time a lettre de 
cachet had placed him under restraint. It is 
evident that he had already accumulated much 
perplexing material for historical investigators 
and psychological specialists, particularly for 
those acquainted with the phenomena of ado- 
lescence. Such a varied experience suggests 
that in the study of this period we may satisfy 
an eager curiosity to learn the foundations of 
that strange character so vividly illustrated in 
the first two years of the Revolution, — a great 
intellect, boundless initiative and force, acting 
apparently without those ordinary restraints 
which we call scruples. In order that we may 
have the whole case before us. Professor Fling 
has devoted careful consideration to the career 
of his father, " I'Ami des hommes," and to that 
of his uncle " the Bailli." 

Several elements of Mirabeau's mature char- 
acter had appeared, Professor Fling believes, 
long before the end of this first period. He 
quotes from a letter which Gilbert Elliott, once 
the schoolmate of Mirabeau in the establishment 
of the Abbe Choquard in Paris, wrote to his 
brother years later when Mirabeau was visiting 
him. " Mirabeau," says this letter, " although 
considerably ripened in abilities ... is as over- 
bearing in his conversation, as awkward in his 
graces, as ugly and misshapen in face and per- 
son, and withal as perfectly sufiicient, as we 
remember him twenty years ago. I loved him 
then, however, and so did you. . . ." This 
refers to a time when Mirabeau was fifteen. 
Three or four years later, in the incidents which 
led to the imprisonment in the He de Re, other 
peculiarities of the boy and man appeared. After 



a love affair, with horrifying possibilities of a 
mesalliance^ Mirabeau had deserted his regiment 
at Saintes and taken refuge in Paris, in order, 
from a secure retreat, to ward off by negotiation 
the effects of parental wi-ath. Incidentally he 
was moved to vilify the colonel of the regiment. 
According to his father, he opened against M. de 
Lambert a " pack of recriminating lies, almost 
convincing by the force of his eloquent effront- 
ery." This marvellous gift of persuasive utter- 
ance, so little dependent upon truth for its 
effectiveness, had, said Lambert, won over to 
Mirabeau's view of the affair half the city of 
Saintes and the province ; and Lambert added, 
he is " believed to have found in the city 20,000 
livres that are no longer there." The mystery 
is where he got these qualities. Was it from 
the stormy race of which he came ? Were they 
the consequences of the unsympathetic and 
pedantic attitude which his father took toward 
the boy almost from the first ? Was it in part 
because at a critical time in his later childhood 
his mother was forced to withdraw from the 
unhappy home in order to make room for a 
mistress? Professor Fling suggests that each 
of these things may have had their influence, 
but he is unwilling to do more than indicate the 
probability, for the references in the letters of 
the father, the principal source of information 
for this early period, are not full enough or 
sufficiently clear to enable him to draw a com- 
plete portrait of this strange youth. He has 
given special care to the history of the father's 
attitude toward the son, tracing its phases with 
greater exactness than have previous biographers. 
Certainly no father ever spoke of a child with 
more brutal frankness. At ten the Marquis 
describes him as bearing " a striking resem- 
blance to Punch, being all belly and back." 
Four years later, when he was out of humor 
with the boy, he wrote that he was " very much 
of a caterpillar," and added, " he will find diffi- 
culty in uncaterpillaring himself." But there 
was a time when he and his son were on good 
terms, the history of which Professor Fling 
gives in the chapter, " In the Confidence of his 
Father." 

Throughout the volume, the author's attitude 
is that of the sympathetic historian. He is 
not an apologist ; he neither attacks nor defends 
Mirabeau, he tries to explain him so far as this 
may be done historically. In one passage he 
refers to Mirabeau as a " notorious literary 
buccaneer "; bvit this is not said in severity, 
but as a simple statement of fact. The interest 
which his narrative arouses in the youthfid 



48 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 16, 



Mirabeau predisposes the reader to look for- 
ward to the appearance of the second volume, 
which will conduct the career to 1789, and to 
the third, which will complete its story. 

Henry E. Bourne. 



Recent American Poetry.* 



Before turning to the consideration of poetry that 
is recent in the literal sense, a few words should be 
said of three recent collections, which give us in 
definitive form and arrangement the complete work 
of three of our most honored American poets. First 
of all, and published within a year from the time of 
his taking-off, we have the new " Household " edition 
of Stedman. In this edition, which includes all of 
his verse which the author deemed worthy of pres- 
ervation, we find the contents of the old " House- 
hold " edition (omitting a few juvenalia) and of the 
" Poems Now First Collected," besides seventeen 
other pieces (including " Mater Coronata ") of later 
date, and two fragments from Theocritus. These 
fragments are all that the poet left in shape for pub- 
lication of his long-contemplated version of the idyls 
of the three Sicilian poets. In accordance with his 
expressed desire, this new edition of Stedman adopts 
a classified arrangement, in which the order of com- 
position is largely ignored. Besides the long poem, 
" The Blameless Prince," there are ten categories, 
" In War Time," " Poems of Manhattan," " Poems 
of New England," " Poems of Occasion," " Poems 
of Greece," "Poems of Nature," "The Carib 
Sea," "Songs and Ballads," "Various Poems," and 
" Shadow-Tiand." Mr. Stedman's work gains greatly 
in effectiveness by this re-arrangement, and no mis- 
take has been made in adopting it. A brief and 
loving memoir gives the essentials of the poet's life, 
and makes clear both the noble fortitude which sus- 

* The Poems op Edmund Clabence Stedman. Boston: 
Houghton Mifflin Co. 

The Poems of Eichabd Watson Gildeb. Boston : Houghton 
Mifflin Co. 

The Poems and Sonnets of Loitisb ChandiiEB Moulton. 
Boston : Little, Brown, & Co. 

James Vila Blake as Poet. By Amelia Hughes. Chicago: 
Thomas F. Halpin & Co. 

The Time of Roses. By John Vance Cheney. Portland, 
Me. : Thomas B. Mosher. 

Poems. By Charles Sprague Smith. New York : A. Weasels Co. 

FiBST Poems. By Henry K. Herbert (H. H.Knibbs). Roch- 
ester : The Genesee Press. 

The House of Falling Leaves, with Other Poems. By 
William Stanley Braithwaite. Boston : John W. Luce & Co. 

The Wounded Ebos. Sonnets by Charles Gibson. Boston : 
The Author. 

Each. IN His Own Tongue, and Other Poems. By William 
Herbert Carruth. New York : G. P. Putnam's Sons. 

Love Songs and Lybics. By J. A. Middleton. Boston: 
John W. Luce & Co. 

An Eabth Poem, and Other Poems. By Gerda Dalliba. 
New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons. 

OuT-DooB Music. Songs of Birds, Trees, Flowers, The Road, 
Love, Religion. By Ella Gilbert Ives. Boston : The Arakelyan 
Press. 

MuGEN. A Book of Verse. By Fanny Runnells Poole. 
Bridgeport, Conn. : The Niles Publishing Co. 



tained him amid the trials of his later years and the 
personal qualities that endeared him to all who had 
the privilege of his friendship. We will quote the 
closing paragraph, which tells us how the end came. 
"Soon after the death of his wife Mr. Stedman moved 
back to New York. He took an apartment up-town and 
settled himself for the last time with his beloved books 
around him. Here, in spite of loss, ill-health, and increas- 
ing age, he enjoyed life as only life's inveterate lovers may, 
and at the end the gods were kind. There came three or 
four days and nights of unusual well-being and high spirits. 
The evening before he died some of his near relatives dined 
with him and his infectious boyish gayety was the life of the 
occasion. The next day, after a morning devoted as usual 
to literary work, he called up an old friend over the telephone 
and demanded that he dine with him, on the plea that his 
dinner was to be an unusually good one that night. The 
invitation was accepted, and he made gleeful preparation 
for an evening of the reminiscent talk that was his favorite 
form of entertainment. In the middle of the afternoon he 
fell without a word. ' Give me to die unwitting of the day,' 
he had sung : his prayer was granted, and for him who had 
fenced with death so long and with such gay oonrage the end 
came with one swift stroke." 

Also included in the "Household" edition, and 
well deserving of admission to that choice company, 
we have the complete poetical works of Mr. Richard 
Watson Gilder. This volume contains no prefatory 
matter, but simply reprints, in the order of their 
original publication, the many small collections of 
refined and graceful verse that Mr. Gilder has been 
producing during the last thirty years and more. 
No less than seventeen copyright entries are in- 
cluded, the first of them dating from 1875, exactly 
a generation ago. It makes us realize for the first 
time how prolific a poet he has been, and also deepens 
our sense of the fine intrinsic quality of his work, 
both early and late. 

The third poet whose work now comes to us in 
collected form is the late Mrs. Louise Chandler 
Moulton, and the pious task of bringing it together, 
and of providing it with the fitting prefatory words, 
has fallen to her friend, Mrs. Harriet Prescott 
Spoffoi'd, who bears a name equally honorable in 
the history of New England letters. The contents 
of Mrs. Moulton's three volumes of verse are here 
put between a single pair of covers, and a few 
additional poems round out the volume. Mrs. 
Spofford's memoir is the work of a devoted friend, 
and is written in the strain of eulogy, but so many 
other voices have borne witness both to the beauty 
of the poet's character and to the exquisite artistry 
of her lyrics and sonnets, that even friendship may 
hardly be said to exaggerate in this instance. Certain 
it is that no writer stands higher upon the roll of 
our woman poets than the gracious personality which 
this volume discloses. 

The Rev. James Vila Blake professes his poetical 
faith in the following sonnet: 

" I know not what my soul hates more and worse 
Than the pale brows of whimpering poets — they 
Who not e'en love but must go ' faint,' ' fall,' say 
' We sicken,' ' pine,' and ' die,' in weeping verse. 
O fine-voiced harmonies, must ye rehearse 
These feeble folk, who swim or swamp in whey 
Like meagre curds, more thin than ghosts by day, 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



49 



Or evening scud that caps of wind disperse ? 
What ! must sweet words, fine vocables, and song, 
That link all men and mark mankind, serve them 
Who suck a jaundice from th' inveterate green ? 
Out wi' the pack ! I love bards firm and strong : 
My soul doth void the pulers — broods I 'd hem 
Like bats in rosy fogs, nor seeing nor seen." 

It is clear that the writer of these lines is no " whim- 
pering poet," but it seems also that his love for 
" bards firm and strong " sometimes gets the better 
of his natural sense of smooth diction and flowing 
melody. There may be compact thought, but there 
is no poetry, in such lines as these, suggested by an 
old circus ring : 

" ' Where be your gibes now,' thou chalked mock, 

And thy heart-sick gags ? Art gone of thine old staleness ? 

And all the melancholy players, over whose paleness 

Were dabbed the lies of smiles and ruby stock 

Of health ? Yon old ring, like a ghost, doth knock 

At my heart strangely, with vehement love, and the frailness 

Of our mortal state stares from the painted halenesM 

On the tan where dizzy phantom-riders flock." 

Miss Amelia Hughes, who has made the selection 
of Mr. Blake's poems now before us, calls the son- 
net of which these lines are the octave " a flower of 
perfected genius." In fact, her introductory essay 
rather repels than invites our admiration for the 
poet, and her hope " that the sincerity of its intent 
may retrieve for him any gaucheries of an inhabile 
and unaided pen " is a brave one in the face of her 
strained and unconvincing argument. Mr. Blake's 
verse is also strained, but at the best it is worth 
while. As an example of what is the best, because 
the most unaffected, we may take the following 
sonnet : 

" If I be questioned whether 't be the day 
Doth follow night around the flowery world, 
Or whether night, with sandals dewy pearled 
Pursue the mom, that wooed will not delay, — 
I answer thus : Firat tell me, which makes way, 
My love to me, or I to her, when furled 
The camping light's gold streamers be, and curled 
With spiral vapors falleth twilight ray ? 
If 't is my part to woo with will, hath erst 
Her beauty not pursued me, will or no, 
And natural the more as 't is not willed ? 
Like day and night, a twain without a first, 
True lovers know not either follows so, 
Or either leads — whom both one love hath filled." 

Mr. Blake's lyrical quality may be exemplified by 
stanzas from his " January Song," taken from " The 
Months," his latest production : 

" And O, if I shall tell, my dear. 
If I shall tell the time o' year 
The time that giveth most o* cheer, 

And most 's our own 

And most by love is known. 

What shall it be?" 

The answer to this question is the New Year season, 

" For 0, th' angelic snow, my dear, 
Th' angelic snow, and ice how sheer. 
The ice that tinkles frosty clear. 

And frosty fills 

With frosted light the sills 

O' the opening year. 



" And O, the troops of nuns, my dear, 
The troops of nuns that white appear 
There where the picket rows up-rear, 
In rows where snow 
The rows doth now o'er-blow. 
And hood them here. 

" And 0, the evergreens, my dear, 
The evergreens that mock and fleer, 
That mock at storms, and shine in gear 
Of shining ice. 
That shining in a trice 
Berobes them sheer." 

Mr. Blake's verse is singularly conscientious and 
thoughtful ; it is also strongly individual. It is 
comprised in five collections, printed between 1887 
and 1907, from all of which " James Vila Blake as 
Poet," the little volume now before us, takes judi- 
cious toll. It seems to echo, at times, the accents 
of such old singers as Herbert and Vaughan, at 
others, the more modern notes of Emerson, Lanier, 
and Sir George Meredith. 

Mr. John Vance Cheney's newest book of song, 
" In Time of Roses," gives us thirty-five (Shake- 
spearean) sonnets, with a score of lyrics appended 
or interspersed. From work so exquisite it is 
difficult to select, and it is almost at random that 
we quote this sonnet with its song-commentary : 

" The summer gone, and all the day's desire. 

Thick in the field stand, ranked, the stately sheaves ; 
The woodland blazes with baptismal fire 

Of Horeb's bush, an angel in its leaves. 
Up through the dusk upon the sky I gaze. 

Where flows the molten gold, while from it loom 
The silver cloud-ships of the windless ways, 

Among the lilac islands brushed with gloom. 
These colors all are love and memory's own, 

This near, appealing pomp the summer wore ; 
'Tis wafted back on all the winds that moan. 

Heightened to brightness it had not before. 
The glories of Love's morning, safe they are ; 
Evening shall burn them in her early star." 

" The field wears more than glory of the year. 
Pilgrims, unseen, walk here ; 
Mortals who crossed it long since, still they pa.ss 
Over the kind, remembering grass, — 
All they once in its smile went by. 
And, now, lapt in its pity lie. 

" The moon wears more than glory of the sun. 
By her is death undone ; 
Forever from the unforgetting skies 
Downward she looks with all the eyes 
Once lifted to her, yearning so, 
In the sweet evenings long ago." 

In this collection of verse, Mr. Cheney seems to 
us to have achieved a more even excellence, a closer 
approach to faultlessness, than in any earlier one, 
and his title to a high place among our lyrists is 
more clearly to be read than ever before. 

Says Mr. Charles Sprague Smith, 

" My muse, thou art a simple thing," 
and her service may be commended to many more 
pretentious versifiers. Mr. Smith's notes are nature- 
worship, patriotism in the good sense, social brother- 
hood, and religious aspiration. These stanzas open 
the longish poem called " Unity ": 



50 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 16, 



" By many patt&^an seeks for God, 
And can it be, in error's maze 
All wander sJlve the few whose ways 
Are those our sainted fathers trod ? 

" Lo, deep within its bosky glen, 
Bending in coy humility, 
The faintly flushed anemone 
Would fain, I ween, be hid again. 

'■ The ruddy rose, the garden's pride, 
Unveils her beauty to the sun. 
Exulting in the life new won, 
Casting her chrysalis aside. 

" The cereus in wondrous way, 
Uplifts her chalice pearly white, 
For, in the mystery of night, 
Wakens the force received by day. 

" In varying forms, the life within. 
Bursting the bonds of winter's night. 
To leaf and flower transmutes the light, 
When the moist April days begin. 

'■ So human souls will ever climb 
By separate paths the bristling peak, 
When yearning hearts with patience seek 
To find eternity in time." 

Mr. Smith's pieces are simple, but they are not often 
marred by faulty expression, and his blank verse is 
particularly good. 

Mr. Henry K. Herbert (or H. H. Knibbs), whose 
" First Poems " are printed in a small private edition, 
is, we are told, a stenographer in a railway office. 
That he has kept the freedom of the spirit, even amid 
such surroundings, is made evident by the highly 
imaginative and deeply felt contents of his little book 
of song. " The Wander-Lust " shall be our chief 
example : 

" Thou soft, persuading, still insistent breeze, 

Hiding thy swelling breast within the sail 
That nods across the undulating seas, 

(Prow-kissing seas that lap the dripping rail), 
Thou bearest from unremembered idle isles. 

Within whose harbors alien anchors rust, 
Sweet singing dreams that sleep beneath thy smiles 

And break, — to wake the slumbering Wander-lust. 

" The inward tears, the unavailing word. 

The uplifted tender mouth's unspoken prayer, 
Are things to me unseen, unfelt, unheard. 

When the wild Wander-lust, with siren-rare 
Enchantment, sings my soul to pathless ways 

O'er fields where Hunger, Grief, and Terror ride, 
Pace with my pace, — gaunt wolves of questing days, — 

Must I, with these, explore the Other Side ? 

" What shall I gain when I at last have found 

The secret garden hid behind the hill ? 
An unremembered grave in quiet ground. 

Or trail defined that lures to wander still, 
Till Time's essential ministries shall change 

This atom to diviner flower-dust 
That on the breath of God shall ever range 

His Seas, in soul-immortal Wander-lust ? " 

If only this moving poem were not marred by the 
impossible rhyme at its close ! Here is a pretty 
little thing that seems worth quoting: 

" I am a miller of tranquil mind, 
Content, as my little grist I grind. 
The simple folk in our valley know 
That my meal is pure though my wheel is slow. 



God's clouds loosed the water that turns my wheel, 
His sun grew the maize that I turn to meal. 
Though the toll comes scant to my measure's brim, 
I am well content, for I grind for Him." 

There is a whole philosophy of life in this happy 
expression of a simple thought. 

Mr. William Stanley Braithwaite, in " The House 
of Falling Leaves," shows himself to be a sonneteer 
of thoughtful dignity and an effective poet of occa- 
sions. His ode for the Whittier centenary is strong 
and sympathetic, as may be seen from its third and 
fifth stanzas, here reproduced : 

" In the rough farmhouse of his lowly birth 
The spirit of poetry fired his youthful years ; 
No palace was more radiant on earth, 
Than the rude home where simple joys and tears 
Filled the boy's soul with the human chronicle 

Of lives that touched the soil. 
He heard about him voices — and he fell 
To dreams, of the dim past, 'midst his daily toil ; 
Romance and legend claimed his Muse's voice 

Till the heroic choice 
Of duty led him to the battle's broil. 

" He helped to seal the doom. His hope was peace 
With the great end attained. Beyond his will 
Fate shaped his aims to awful destinies 
Of vengeful justice ; — now valley and hill 
Groaned with the roar of onset ; near and far 

The terrible, sad cries 
Of slaughtered men pierced into sun and star ; 
Beyond his will the violence — but the prize 
Of Freedom, blood had purchased, won to God 

His praise that all men trod 
Erect, and clothed in Freedom, 'neath the skies." 

Mr. Braithwaite, besides giving us his own volume 
of verse, appears also as sponsor for a sonnet se- 
quence, "The Wounded Eros," by Mr. Charles 
Gibson, and writes for the book an elaborate intro- 
ductory essay. Mr. Gibson's sonnets number one 
hundred and thirty, and this is one of them : 

" How sweet to me are these soft days of spring ; 
But how much sweeter, did thy beauty bear. 
Like cherry blossoms o'er the flowering air, 
Its scented fragrance to me ; and did bring 
Some songs of love, like birds upon the wing. 
To tell me that my love, with thine, might share 
These lovers' hours, that in the spring appear. 
And o'er the earth their efflorescence fling. 

Ah, Love ! thy winter's waiting hath well-nigh 
This heart of mine, for love of thee, so broken, 
That it hath scarce the power to beat to-day. 
'T were time, indeed, to compensate my sigh 
At last with Love's unutterable token, 
That shall not with the seasons fade away." 

From this, and the other sonnets, we gather that 
the poet's love is scorned ; else it would not be free 
to languish through one hundred and thirty sonnets. 
We are informed that the book tells " the story of 
an oblation full of inexplicable shadows," which 
seems to be a fairly accurate description. There is 
little subtlety in the imagery, and the poet's senti- 
ment is of the obvious kind, sicklied o'er with the 
pale cast of thought rather than glowing with passion. 
" Each in his Own Tongue " is a poem that was 
printed in a magazine many years ago, and has beeu 
widely copied since then, although not always with 



1909.] 



THE DIAI. 



51 



the acknowledgment due its author. It was written 
by Professor William Herbert Carruth in a happy 
hour of inspiration, and bids fair to keep his name 
in the anthologies for a long time to come. He 
may, in fact, come to share the distinction of Joseph 
Blanco White, whose memory a single sonnet has 
kept alive. For the present, however, we must 
think of Mr. Carruth as more than a man of a 
single poem, for he has just given us a collection of 
some fourscore pieces, many of which approach in 
seriousness of thought and felicity of expression the 
one widely-known example which provides his book 
with its title. Rather than quote the familiar lines 
we will reproduce the stanzas called " Dreamers of 
Dreams ": 

" We are all of us dreamers of dreams ; 
On visions our childhood is fed ; 
And the heart of the child is unhaunted, it seems, 
By the ghosts of dreams that are dead. 

" From childhood to youth 's but a span, 

And the years of our youth are soon sped ; 
Yet the youth is no longer a youth, but a man, 
When the first of his dreams is dead. 

" There 's no sadder sight this side the grave 
Than the shroud o'er a fond dream spread, 
And the heart should be stern and the eyes be brave 
To gaze on a dream that is dead. 

" 'T is as a cup of wormwood and gall 

When the doom of a great dream is said, 
And the best of a man is under the pall 
When the best of his dreams is dead. 

" He may live on by compact and plan 
When the fine bloom of living is shed, 
But God pity the little that 's left of a man 
When the last of his dreams is dead. 

" Let him show a brave face if he can, 
Let him woo fame or fortune instead. 
Yet there 's not much to do but bury a man 
When the last of his dreams is dead." 

One other example of Mr. Carruth's simple and 
sincere workmanship may be given: 

"A carpet all of faded brown, 
On the gray bough a dove that grieves ; 
Death seemeth here to have his own, 
Bnt the spring violets nestle down 
Under the leaves. 

" A brow austere and sad gray eyes, 

Locks in which Care her silver weaves ; 
Hope seemeth tombed no more to rise, 
But God he knoweth on what wise 
Love for Love's sunshine waiting lies 
Under the leaves." 

A fine sense of the essential realities pervades Mr. 
Carruth's verse. He is an academic poet, but one 
whose sensibilities the academic environment has not 
deadened. 

Mr. J. A. Middleton's " Love Songs and Lyrics " 
are pretty trifles which may be illustrated by *' The 
Lost Serenade ": 

" I sang a song. Alas, the nightingale 
A-down the vale 
Sang too ; and as I told my passion's pain 
He nmrmured his, and hushed my humble strain. 



" I blew a kiss, on wings of love to rise 
Unto her eyes ; 
Alas, the wanton breeze before had pressed 
A dozen kisses on her snowy breast. 

" I took a rose — but, ah ! her favorite tree 
Outwitted me ; 
For, kneeling like a saint before a shrine, 
He offered handf uls, lovelier far than mine." 

There are only a scant score of these songs ; the 
rest of the little book is devoted to an incident in 
dramatic form, " Red Sefchen," which readers of 
Heine will not need to have explained. This is the 
poet's declaration upon the occasion of the lovers' 
last clandestine meeting : 

" As dusk to Nightingale, as sun to flower, 
Aa star to some benighted wanderer, 
As cool palm-island in a sea of sand, 
As light to ardent seeker after Truth 
Grappling with Doubt and Error till the full 
Fierce fire of Trial hath refined his faith 
And made it tenfold purer than before : 
As celandine unto the lovesick bee 
That draws, with thrUls of exquisite delight. 
The honey-heart it covets. As the pulse 
To life — so thou to me. Our spirits twine, 
And in one tender growth of mutual love 
Spring upward, bearing fruit of perfect bliss, 
Which shall endure when life itself shall pass." 

The consummation of this tragedy in miniature 
comes swiftly. Feeling herself disgraced by her 
father's unhallowed calling, Sefchen, after the poet 
has left her, slays herself with the executioner's 
sword. 

Miss Gerda Dalliba (if that is a real name) is the 
author of " An Earth Poem, and Other Poems." 
The intent of " An Earth Poem " is, in the author's 
words, "to express in words Man's needs, capabil- 
ities, and progress, accepting as a premise that, gen- 
erally speaking, his course has been one tending 
from the mere materialism of Nature to a more 
refined and spiritual outlook, as is the case with an 
individual turning from childhood's idealistic pan- 
theism through the material of fact and divergent 
emotions towards the necessity of a formulated 
Deism, or the slow progression of the Mass by the 
care of civilization and cultivation to a penetrating 
view of essential needs." It takes a long breath to 
get through this descriptive sentence, and many of 
them to get through the dithyrambic outpouring of 
the poem itself. We are more than ever inclined 
to think with Poe that the expression " long poem " 
involves a contradiction of terms. It is an amor- 
phous composition, in which nuggets of poetic dic- 
tion may be found imbedded. Here is one of them : 

" If I go on, soul, what will betide ? 
Shall I grow weary of the weight of light ? 
I, who before was novice to the Sun, 
Shall Paradise to me seem dark with prayer 
And ecstacy the dust upon the streets 
Where the man angel, joins the hallowed saint — 
And prophet, the diviner angel meets — 
Where sin, like a pale woman nun, grows faint 
With too divine a beauty, born from tears ? 
Or on the long night's darkness, long and wide 
Become an essence which is spiritualized ? " 



52 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 16, 



These questionings leave us baffled. Miss Dalliba's 
other poems are sonnets and miscellaneous pieces in 
about equal measure. Mr. Edwin Markham intro- 
duces the collection with a few ingratiating words 
finding " a rift of genius in this ledge of song." 
But we must call the book the work of a nature at 
present utterly unregulated, from both the intel- 
lectual and the artistic points of view. 

The " Out-Door Music " of Miss Ella Gilbert Ives 
is classified under six categories — Birds, Trees, 
Flowers, The Road, Love, and Religion. *' An 
April Birch" becomes the occasion of this pretty 
simile : 

" The breath of God is in the breeze 
And touches all the quivering trees. 
But one, in maiden mood apart, 
To hold communion with her heart, 
In awe-struck beauty now receives 
The heavenly tidings in her leaves : 
Resistless as the golden shower 
That entered Danae's brazen tower, 
God's sunbeams on her whiteness fall 
And life leaps up to meet his call." 

And here is "The Cardinal Flower." no less 

charming : 

" In dim and cloistered nook, 
Where slips a quiet brook, 
A stolid priest intones — 
To liquid sighs and moans — 
A penitential psalm. 

" The pallid sunrays glide 
Across his vestments, dyed 
In Golgotha's deep hue, 
And damp with chrism-dew 

From Calvary's nailed palm." 

These songs have simplicity and grace, qualities 
often denied to strains of more pretentious flight. 

" Mugen " is the title of a book of verse by Mrs. 
Fanny RunneUs Poole, and the word, we are told, 
is Japanese, meaning " in dream and reality." That 
Mrs. Poole can write tunefully may be evidenced by 
the subjoined stanza : 

" O the heart, the heart hath seasons, 

The heart, memorial flowers, 
And memory wells like vesper bells 

To thrill the dreaming hours ! 
The fancies we have cherished, 

The affections' myriad springs, 
Reach out betimes in rippling rhymes 

To hearts who love such things." 

Several of her pieces are translations, among these 
being versions of five of Heredia's sonnets, done 
with sympathy and intelligence. 

William Morton Payne. 



The anuouncement that the Nobel prize in literature 
has gone to Professor Rudolf Eucken has stimulated 
interest in au author who has hitherto been little 
known outside of academic circles. One of his English 
disciples, Mr. W. R. Boyce Gibson, has written a study 
entitled " Rudolf Eueken's Philosophy of Life," which 
has been published in America by The Macmillan Co. 



Briefs on New Books. 

Mr. Chesterton^ H J^^- Chesterton's reasons for accept- 
confession ing orthodox Christianity are, as a 

of faith. matter of course, thoroughly charac- 

teristic. They are rather brilliantly set forth in his 
little book named "Orthodoxy" (John Lane Co.), 
which is intended to be a companion volume to 
" Heretics " — affirmative and constructive where 
that was negative and critical. The reason for the 
faith that is in him Mr. Chesterton might briefly 
have declared to be this, — credo quia impossibile. 
" All other philosophies," he tells us, " say the things 
that plainly seem to be true ; only this philosophy 
has again and again said the thing that does not 
seem to be true, but is true." And again : it is 
convincing and irresistible for the reason " not 
merely that it deduces logical truths, but that when 
it suddenly becomes illogical, it has found out, so to 
speak, an illogical truth. It not only goes right 
about things, but it goes wrong (if one may say so) 
exactly where the things go wrong." The Chris- 
tian's creed is paradoxical, hence it is incontrovert- 
ible. This, amply elaborated and illustrated, is 
'the substance of the book, and is exactly what a 
careful reading of Mr. Chesterton's previous works 
might have led one to expect. To some the very 
unreason of the whole reasoning will be delightfully 
satisfying ; to others it will be foolishness. Inci- 
dentally some sparks of truth are struck out in 
almost startling fashion ; as, for instance, the essence 
of insanity is not its unreason, but its reason : it 
moves in a perfectly flawless and unbreakable circle 
(a vicious circle) of unanswerable reasons, and can 
only be reduced to sanity by introducing an illogical 
element. Incidentally, too, some refreshingly frank 
self-revelations are made. " Mere light sophistry," 
the author declares, " is the thing that I happen to 
despise most of all things, and it is perhaps a whole- 
some fact that this is the thing of which I am gen- 
erally accused." And on his first page, in explaining 
how his book came to be written, he acknowledges 
himself to be " only too ready to write books upon 
the feeblest provocation." The volume is evidently 
written currente calamo, and with little attention to 
the best order and the most concise form of state- 
ment ; but it is, on the whole, one of the best pieces 
of work Mr. Chesterton has given us. 

,. , Perhaps the best thing one can gay 
A new poetical i' -rrrMT 

rendering of of Mr. Theodore C. Williams s trans- 
the uKneid. j^tion of the " ^neid," now published 

by the Houghton Mifflin Co., is that it tempts to a 
re-reading of the entire epic, no matter how familiar 
it be already. Wherever we have opened the vol- 
ume, the smooth flow and graceful diction of its 
blank verse has beguiled us to linger, and to read a 
page where we had intended to read a passage only. 
The translator's justification of his work is interest- 
ing. He says : " My first experiments grew out of 
the exigencies of teaching. I thought it important 
that a class in Virgil should sometimes lay its Latin 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



58 



by, smooth out its frowning forehead, and just ' hear 
Sordello's story told.' But all the rhymed versions 
seemed to have a touch of the comic ; and the prose 
ones, of course, were in that mongrel, base-bred jargon 
of which a man would hardly care to own the paternity 
unless he were a translator of the classics. Even the 
most scholarly and elegant versions did not admit of 
continuous reading aloud. It therefore became my 
rather desperate practice to write out certain selected 
passages, both in prose and verse, in renderings 
intended first of all to appeal to the ear." This 
account of the genesis of the translation prepares us 
for a lucid and easily-moving text, and we could wish 
the school-boy no better fortune than to have his 
Virgil in this form to read side by side with the 
original. He could use it neither as a "pony " nor 
as a lexicon, because the translator's starting-point 
is the phrase rather than the single word, but he 
could get from it much understanding of the power- 
ful appeal which the poet has made to the cultivated 
elect of all ages. No brief quotation can do much 
to exhibit the simple charm of this version, but we 
will permit a few lines to speak for it, taking one of 
the most familiar of passages : 

" ^neas thus replied : 
' Thine image, sire, thy melancholy shade. 
Came oft upon my vision, and impelled 
My journey hitherward. Our fleet of ships 
Lies safe at anchor in the Tuscan seas. 
Come, clasp my hand ! Come, father, I implore. 
And heart to heart this fond embrace receive ! ' 
So speaking, all his eyes suffused with tears ; 
Thrice would his arms in vain that shape enfold. 
Thrice from the touch of hand the vision fled, 
Like wafted winds or likest hovering dreams." 

The translation is truthful in the best sense, avoid- 
ing pedantry and fussiness, preserving the argument 
and the dramatic effect of the long speeches, and 
using a vocabulary rich in suggestiveness and emo- 
tional association. Either this or William Morris 
would be our counsel to the reader, young or old, 
who should ask us for the best approach to Virgil 
by means of the English language, and Mr. Williams 
has over Morris the advantage of closer texture and 
a style more comfortable to the general ear. We 
had not supposed a new Virgil in English could 
prove so welcome. 

Factors in the Some eight years ago Mr. Norman 

creation of the ff i i i 

American xlapgood gave US a work on the con- 

drama, temporary stage, which treated those 

aspects of the acted drama that were then playing a 
leading part in American theatrical history, besides 
presenting a critical consideration of current histri- 
onic notabilities. In "The American Stage of 
Today " (Small, Maynard & Company), Mr. Walter 
Pritchard Eaton has done a like service, giving a 
vital treatment of the drama in America as it is 
developing at the present day, and rescuing from 
unmerited oblivion records of productions worthy of 
a more enduring place than the newspaper. Mr. 
Eaton's book is written in that piquant journalistic 
style which is cultivated through labor on the daily 
press ; and, while it is not characterized by the same 



Estays on 

Elizabethan 

dramatists. 



assimilative power as the earlier work, it is inform- 
ing to the student who feels an intelligent interest 
in the contemporary drama. It treats principally 
of those authors who are bringing to bear on the 
problem of creating an American drama the largest 
amount of dramatic skill, truthful observation, in- 
telligent reflection, and passion for reality, and are 
thus keeping our drama connected with life, leading 
our stage on toward better things by making it a 
vital force in the community. As a corollary, in 
considering the question of reality on the stage, Mr. 
Eaton says : " The world knows that reality is for- 
ever in the making. What we called real yesterday 
is unreal today ; truth is what we would have it ; 
reality will only be perfect as we shape it so. To 
deny the mission of the stage, one of man's most 
cherished fields of aesthetic endeavor, in this high 
task of remoulding the world ' nearer to the heart's 
desire ' — the real world, not the make-believe — to 
call it from the work for which it is above all other 
art-forms fitted, and set it the trivial task of aping 
unrealities, is to deny the laws of change and growth, 
to belittle the power of aesthetic imagination, hope- 
lessly to undervalue the worth of dramatic form." 

A new book by Mr. Swinburne is an 
event, even if, as in the case of " The 
Age of Shakespeare" (Harper), it 
contains little new material. The present volume is 
a collection, with slight changes, of nine scattered 
papers upon Elizabethan dramatists. Most of the 
matter offered was written from twenty to thirty 
years ago, and we have long wished that it might be 
brought together in book form. It seems to us, how- 
ever, that the present collection is less complete than 
it might have been made. If recollection serves, 
Mr. Swinburne's contributions to the English monthly 
reviews during the eighties and early nineties included 
considerably more work than is now brought to- 
gether. However, the volume is too precious for us 
to quarrel with because it is not bigger, and at once 
takes its place beside the author's " Study of Shake- 
speare " and his separate volumes upon Jonson and 
Chapman. The subjects of his nine essays are 
Marlowe, Webster, Dekker, Marston, Middleton, 
Rowley, Heywood, Chapman, and Tourneur. They 
take up, one by one, the important plays of each of 
these dramatists, and discuss them with a penetrative 
insight and a certainty of judgment that no other 
student of the Elizabethan drama would be likely to 
equal. The discussion is, of course, impetuous and 
heated, and at moments unnecessarily discursive, 
but it has the illuminating quality which is the signi- 
ficant thing in criticism, and for which no weight of 
mere scholarship can provide a satisfactory substitute. 
That being the case, we may allow him without too 
much indignation an occasional light-hearted irrel- 
evancy, like the remark about " such constitutions as 
could survive and assimilate a diet of Martin Tupper 
or Mark Twain," or the playful comparison of 
Euripides to "a mutilated moniey." The volume 
has a sonnet-dedication " to the memory of Charles 



54 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 16, 



Lamb," whose " Specimens " were published just a 
century ago. It is a tender and beautiful tribute, 
which no one has a clearer right than Mr. Swinburne 
to lay at the feet of the man who rediscovered the 
great Elizabethans for the modern world. 

currnu topics ^^ ^^ Surprising how many things, 
trenchantly new and old, wait only for the right 

treated. person in order to be made the sub- 

jects of interesting and edifying discourse — spoken 
or written. Mr. Edward Sandford Martin, author 
of that alluringly entitled book, "Windfalls of 
Observation," and other volumes, has issued a fresh 
collection of brief essays under the name, " In a New 
Century" (Scribner). A score or more of topics 
currently or even, in many cases, perennially inter- 
esting are handled with adroitness and grace, and 
usually in such a way as to strike out some novel or 
significant thought. Even in his chapter on writing 
for publication — a rather threadbare theme, surely 
— the author is not altogether unsuccessful in avoid- 
ing the hackneyed. He offers a novel and perhaps 
useful suggestion in the following: "A man who 
has been a fairly successful writer for a good many 
years has been heard to attribute his success to 
the exceptionally feeble quality of his mind, which 
brought it about that he always got tired of any line 
of thought he was expounding before the reader 
did." The not very lively topic, " Deafness," is 
responsible for fifteen pages of matter that bears 
evidence of personal experience. Among consola- 
tions for the loss of hearing he fails to emphasize the 
appreciable increase in value gained by the remain- 
ing senses ; and in aids to intercourse he omits to 
include lip-reading — which, however, is incidentally 
mentioned later. His style is so pleasing and so 
suited to his ends that one is surprised and even 
mildly shocked to find him using, wantonly and 
under no sort of provocation, the unlovely adjective 
"dratted." "Would" for "should" is regrettable, 
but, alas, to be expected. A good deal of entertain- 
ment, and not a few pregnant and profitable sug- 
gestions, are to be had from the book. 

It may be said with no undue dis- 

.lr;Tmdr'P^r^g«°^«"t t^at the "Theory of 
Mind " by Professor March of Union 
College will give no higher satisfaction to any reader 
than it did to its author in the writing. There is 
a certain novelty of statement, and emphasis of 
points of view that lead the author to regard the 
whole contribution as profound and novel and com- 
prehensive. All that can be said is that there are 
few types of mind affected by the spirit and the 
methods of modern psychology that will feel at all 
in sympathy with this form of exposition. It re- 
solves itself largely into a matter of terminology and 
emphasis ; and Professor March's attitude in this 
matter repels not alone because it is strange, but 
because it seems to distort and to offer for the most 
part only the consolation of a vocabulary. The 
theory, in brief, is that all essential human traits are 



in the nature of impulses and instincts ; that psy- 
chology must be written wholly in the terms of such 
instincts and impulses, and that we may use such 
terms as ideal impulses, home-building impulses, 
and other specialized impulses, to account for every 
phase of social, personal, or material action. All 
this is further incorporated in terms of a Monistic, 
hypothesis, which helps expression but not interpre- 
tation. In brief, the temptation is irresistible to 
apply to this set of doctrines — not devoid of ability 
or insight — the familiar comment, that persons who 
like this sort of thing will probably find in this sort 
of book the things they like. For the general stu- 
dent of psychology it will carry but moderate mean- 
ing and less conviction. ( Scribner.) 

A plea for Educational experience is difficult to 

personality transform into helpful words ; yet 

m education. |.jjg attempt is worth making, and 
will continue to be made. Though not notable, the 
volume by Mr. James P. Conover, Master in St. 
Paul's School, Concord, N. H., brings the well- 
directed thinking of the schoolmaster to bear upon 
the larger interests of his calling. The general 
emphasis implied by the title — " Personality in Edu- 
cation " (Moffat, Yard & Co.) — contains a timely 
and welcome protest against the machine-made 
pupil and the method-crammed teacher. The spirit 
of it all is sane, the perspective sound, the treatment 
judicious. The several factors of the educative 
process — the teacher, the child, the school, disci- 
pline, studies, and the routines of work, play, and 
examinations — are passed in review with a unity 
of consideration derived from a large and well- 
interpreted experience. A significant though not 
emphasized opinion of the volume is that contained 
in the supplementary chapter on the College, which 
expresses profound disappointment with what that 
institution has been able to accomplish even with 
promising boys from good schools. That here 
again the absence of the personal touch and the 
contact with the really educative relations of life 
has much to do with the failure, is an opinion held 
alike by Mr. Conover and by many who have been 
reflecting upon problems akin to his. 

„, ,. . Professor John Graham Brooks, in 

Studies of our , . , , • ^ ^ * /~w i o 

national life his book entitled " As Others oee 
andprof/ress. ijg " (MacmiUan), has collected a 
great variety of criticisms on American life and 
manners, from English, French, German, and other 
European visitors, during the past century. Now 
and then he uses the lash of the foreigner to chas- 
tise some of the faults which he personally desires 
to correct. The American habit of bragging, and 
of regarding matters from the provincial standpoint, 
is thoroughly dissected and duly castigated. The 
chapters at the close of the work, on the signs of 
progress in this country, are full of optimism, and 
show that the destructive criticism of the earlier 
^chapters was not intended to end in fatalistic nihi- 
lism. Professor Brooks has not only travelled in 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



65 



America and Europe with keen powers of observa- 
tion, but he has carried with him a worthy standard 
by which to judge his own countrymen with fair- 
ness and without flattery. The result is a book 
worthy of being read, and wholesome in its lessons. 



Mr. John R. Spears has collected 
from various sources the materials 



The ttorv of 

the whalinp 

industry in 

America. for a book on the American whaling 

industry which is at once fairly comprehensive and 
interesting. It is entitled " The Story of the New 
England Whalers," and appears in the series of 
"Stories from American History" (Macmillan). 
The portions of Mr. Spears's book which relate to the 
origin and conduct of whaling operations in colonial 
days are rather better than the later chapters which 
are principally concerned with the more complex and 
diverse features of the industry in the nineteenth 
century. The purposes of such a work would be 
better served by tracing the connection more closely 
between the whalers and the palmy days of Amer- 
ican shipping, and between the spread of whaling 
activities to the Pacific and the awakei^ng of Amer- 
ican interest in California, Honolulu, the North 
Pacific, the fur trade, and to the Orient in general. 
While all these things are hinted at in the book, their 
relationships in the development of American history 
might well be made plainer for young readers, and 
for some older readers as well. 



>rOTES. 



Mr. Booth Tarkington's deservedly successful play, 
" The Man from Home," is now published in book form, 
with illustrations, by Messrs. Harper & Brothers. 

A monograph on " George Cruikshank," by Mr. 
W. U. Chasson, with many illustrations, is published by 
Messrs. E. P. Dutton & Co. in their " Popular Library 
of Art." 

An edition of Dr. Richard Burton's biblical drama, 
" Rahab," illustrated from pictures of Mr. Donald 
Robertson's production of the play, will be issued soon 
by Messrs. Henry Holt & Co. 

" The Eleanor Smith Music Course," in four graded 
volumes, is a recent publication of the American Book 
Co., who also put forth a " Plane and Sohd Geometry," 
by Professor Elmer A. Lyman. 

" When and Where of Famous Men and Women," 
edited by Messrs. Howard Hensman and Clarence 
Webb, is a vest-pocket biographical dictionary pub- 
lished in the " Miniature Reference Library " of Messrs. 
E. P. Dutton & Co. 

" Selections from Don Quijote," edited by Professor 
J. D. M. Ford, is a new volume in " Heath's Modern 
Language Series " of school texts. Eighty pages of 
text to fifty of notes is the scale of proportion, and 
there is a vocabulary. 

With the publication of the sixth volume, the 
" Eversley " Tennyson (Macmillan) is now complete. 
The special feature of this edition is found in the anno- 
tations, which are the poet's own, either left in his 
autograph, or taken down verbatim from his table-talk. 
They are of the utmost value, and make the present 



edition desirable beyond all others. The present Lord 
Tennyson has edited the work, and now and then given 
us an explanatory note of his own. 

" The Taming of a Shrew," edited by Mr. F. S. Boas, 
is published by Messrs. Duffield & Co. in their " Shake- 
speare Classics." To their " Old-Spelling Shakespeare " 
is now added " As You Like It," edited by Messrs. F. J. 
Furnivall and F. W. Clarke. 

" The Independent " has recently begun pubUcation 
of a series of articles on the Great Universities of this 
country, written by Dr. Edwin E. Slosson of the edi- 
torial staff. The articles are critical and comparative, 
with a large amount of new material. 

"Sidney McCall," the author of "Truth Dexter," 
" The Dragon Painter," etc., is at work upon the manu- 
script of her new book, which will be brought out this 
coming season by Messrs. Little, Brown & Co. The 
basic theme of the book will be child labor in the 
Southern mills. 

Continuing their practice of several previous years, 
the Chicago Madrigal Club offers a prize of $50. for 
an original poem which shall be used in its musical 
competition of 1909. Full details of the contest may 
be obtained from Mr. D. A. Clippinger, 410 Kimball 
Hall, Chicago. 

An important addition to the " World's Classics," to 
be published immediately by the Oxford University 
Press, is " Joseph and his Brethren," the famous poem 
by Charles Wells, with an introduction by Mr. A. C. 
Swinburne and a long note on Rossetti and Wells by 
Mr. Theodore Watts-Dunton. 

An Oxford edition of the works of Charles and Mary 
Lamb, in two volumes, is to be published immediately by 
the Oxford University Press. An Oxford India paper 
edition in one volume will also be issued. The editor 
is Mr. Thomas Hutchinson, editor of the Wordsworth 
and the Shelley volumes in the " Oxford Poets " series. 

Two centuries ago the Oxford Chair of Poetry was 
inaugurated, and a tribute to its almost forgotten founder, 
Henry Birkhead, was paid when the anniversary came 
round a few weeks ago, by Mr. J. W. Mackail, who 
devoted a public lecture to his memory. The lecture is 
now published in pamphlet form at the Oxford Claren- 
don Press. 

Mrs. M. E. M. Davis, a well-known Southern writer, 
died at her home in New Orleans on January 1 after a 
long illness. She was the wife of Major Thomas E. 
Davis, editor of the New Orleans " Picayune." Her 
last book, " The Moons of Balbanca," a story for young 
people, was published by Houghton Mifflin Company 
last September. 

" The World and his Wife " is, as theatre-goers 
know, the title given to a recent version of Seuor 
Echegaray's " El Gran Graleoto," as enacted by Mr. 
WilUam Faversham s company not long ago. This 
translation, the work of Mr. Charles Frederic Nirdlinger, 
is published in book form, with stage-pictures, by Mr. 
Mitchell Kennerley. 

" The Children of the Chapel at Blackfriars, 1597- 
1603," by Professor Charles William Wallace, appears 
as an issue of the " University Studies " of the Uni- 
versity of Nebraska. It is the result of an extensive 
original investigation of the history of the Elizabethan 
children-companies of players, and is only a foretaste of 
what is to come, for the writer contemplates extending 
the work until it shall fill three large volumes, including 
the many documents which he will reprint. Some of 



66 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 16, 



these documents are of extreme importance to Shake- 
spearean students, and are of the author's ovm un- 
earthing. They are merely referred to in the present 
monograph, but will be published in full when the com- 
plete work is ready. 

In connection with the Lincoln centennial, Messrs. 
Thomas Y. Crowell & Co. have reprinted in their well- 
known " Astor " series the work entitled: "Abraham 
Lincoln: Tributes from his Associates, Reminiscences 
of Soldiers, Statesmen, and Citizens." This book, first 
published in 1895, is one of the most interesting of the 
innumerable volumes on Lincoln. 

An edition of " Robinson Crusoe," intended to com- 
bine " an embodiment of appropriateness and charm 
with an appeal for the booklover, for the sophisticated 
reader," has just been published by the Houghton 
Mifflin Co. This handsome library edition fills two 
volumes, uniform with the James Howell of the same 
publishers, and is illustrated by Stothard's designs, 
reproduced in photogravure. 

Some recent English texts are the following : " Mac- 
beth," " Julius Caesar," and « King Henry the Fifth " 
(Ginn), being new volumes of the " Hudson Shake- 
speare"; the "Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin" 
(Heath), edited by H. A. Davidson; Bacon's "Essays" 
(Heath), edited by Mr. Fred Allison Howe; and 
Lowell's " The Vision of Sir Launfal, and Other Poems " 
(Merrill), edited by Professor Julian W. Abernethy. 

Appropriate to the several centenaries recently or soon 
to be celebrated, the Directors of the Old South Work 
announce the following additions to their series of " Old 
South Leaflets": Milton's Treatise on Education; Lin- 
coln s Message to Congress, July 4, 1861; Gladstone's 
"Kin Beyond Sea"; Robert C. Wintlirop's Fourth of 
July Oration, 1876; Dr. Holmes's Fourth of July Ora- 
tion, 1863; Gladstone's Essay on Tennyson; Darwin's 
account of his education, from his Autobiography; 
Winthrop's address on Music in New England. The 
" Old South Leaflets," by the way, now comprise nearly 
two himdred titles. 

In a volume dainty enough to be deserving of the 
text, Mr. St. John Lucas has chosen, and Mr. Henry 
Frowde has published, " Selected Poems of Pierre de 
Ronsard " at the Oxford Clarendon Press. From the 
same source we have a set of five small volumes of good 
literature, being the following: " Poems by John Clare," 
edited by Mr. Arthur Symons; "Select Poems of 
William Barnes," edited by Mr. Thomas Hardy ; " War 
Songs," from the fourteenth-century balladists to Tenny- 
son, selected by Mr. Christopher Stone; Gait's "Annals 
of the Parish," with an introduction by Mr. G. S. 
Gordon; and a new edition of " Echoes from the Oxford 



liisT OF New Books. 



A one-volume Commentary on the entire Bible, 
written by some of the best Biblical scholars of England 
and America, and edited by the Reverend J. R. 
Dummelow, is announced by The Macmillan Company. 
Its purpose is to meet the wants of the ordmary Bible 
reader by furnishing adequate introductions to the vari- 
ous books, and notes explaining the principal diificulties 
which arise in connection with them. The volume 
includes not only a Commentary on each of the Books 
of the Bible, but also a series of articles dealing with 
the larger questions suggested by the Bible as a whole. 
It has been edited on the principle of incorporating the 
assured results of modern scholarship, while avoiding 
extreme or doubtful opinions. 



[TAe following list, containing 36 titles, includes books 
received by The Dial since its last issue.l 

BIOGRAPHY. 
The Maid of France : Story of the Life and Death of Jeanne 

d'Arc. By Andrew Lang. With portraits in photogravure, 

etc., 8vo, pp. 379. Longmans, Green, & Co. $3.50 net. 
Edward Macdowell : A Study. By Lawrence Gilmour. With 

portraits, 12mo, pp. 190. John Lane Co. $1.50 net. 
David Swing: : Poet-Preacher. By Joseph Port Newton. With 

photogravure portrait, large 8vo, uncut, pp. 273. Chicago: 

Unity Publishing Co. $2. net. 
Abraham Lincoln : Tributes from his Associates. With 

introduction by William H. Ward. New edition; with 

portrait, 12mo, pp. 295. T. Y. Crowell & Co. 60 cts. 
Sir William Temple : The Gladstone Essay, 1908. By Murray 

L. R. Beaven. 12mo, uncut, pp. 130. Oxford University Press. 

HISTORY. 
Old Times on the Upper Mississippi : Recollections of a 

Steamboat Pilot, from 1854 to 1863. By George B. Merrick. 

Illus., large 8vo, uncut, gilt top, pp. 323. Cleveland, O.: 

Arthur H. Clark Co. $3.50 net. 
Calais Under English Rule. By G. A. C. Sandeman. 12mo, 

uncut, pp. 140. Oxford University Press. 

GENERAL LITERATURE. 

Under Fetraia ; with Some Saunterings. By the author of 
" In a Tuscan Garden." Illus., 12mo, gilt top, pp. 310. John 
Lane Co. $1.50 net. 

The Children of the Chapel at Blackfriars, 1597-1603. By 
Charles William Wallace. Limited edition, large 8vo, uncut, 
pp. 206. Privately printed by the author. $2.50 net. 

Balthaser. By Anat'ole France; trans, by Mrs. John Lane. 
8vo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 225. John Lane Co. $2. 

Heart Thoughts : Papers and Addresses. By Mrs. H. B. 
Folk. With portraits, 12mo, pp. 80. Philadelphia: Amer- 
ican Baptist Publication Society. 

FICTION. 
The Missioner. By E. Phillips Oppenheim. Illus.. 12mo, 

pp. 312. Little, Brown & Co. $1.50. 
The Red Mouse. By William Hamilton Osborne. Illus. in 

color, 12mo, pp. 320. Dodd, Mead & Co. $1.50. 
The Confession of Seimiour Vane. By Ellen Snow. 12mo, 

pp. 77. R. P. Fenno & Co. 
Heroines of a Schoolroom. By Ursula Tannenforst. With 

frontispiece, 12mo, pp. 484. John C. Winston Co. 
Every Man His Chance. By Matilda Woods Stone. 12mo, 

pp. 202. Boston : The Gorham Press. 
Reincarnated : A Romance of the Soul. By Charles Gould 

Beede. 12mo, pp. 224. Ames, la.: Newport Publishing 

Co. $1.25. 

VERSE AND DRAMA. 
The Poems of A. C. Benson. With photogravure portrait, 

12mo. gilt top, pp. 320. John Lane Co. $1.50 net. 
Toward the Uplands : Later Poems. By Lloyd Mifflin. With 

photogravure portrait, large 8vo, uncut, pp. 76. Oxford 

University Press. 
A Florentine Tragedy. By Oscar Wilde ; Opening Scene by 

Sturge Moore. 12mo, gilt top, pp. 66. John W. Luce & Co 
The Tragedy of Man : A Dramatic Poem. By Imre Madach 

trans, from the original Hungarian by William N. Loew. 

12mo, uncut, pp. 224. New York : The Arcadia Press. $1 .50 net. 
A Man of Destiny : The Story of Abraham Lincoln. By 

Ernest Linwood Staples. With portraits, 12mo, pp. 71. 

Springfield, Mass. : Lincoln Publishing Co. 
Sun Time and Cloud Time : Minor Chorda, Verses, Sketches, 

and Tales. By Andrew Harvey Scoble. 12mo, pp. 200. R. F. 

Fenno & Co. 
The Angel of Thought and Other Poems : Impressions from 

Old Masters. By Ethel Allen Murphy. Illus., 8vo, gilt top. 

Boston : The Graham Press. $1. 

THEOLOGY AND RELIGION. 

The Greek and Eastern Churches. By Walter F. Adeney. 

12mo,pp.634. "International Theological Library." Charles 

Scribner's Sons. $2.50 net. 
The Religion of Babylonia and Assyria, especially in its 

Relations to Israel. By Robert William Rogers. Illus., 

large 8vo, pp. 235. Eaton & Mains. $2. net. 



1909.] 



THE DIAi. 



5T 



The Church and the £ 

Mission Halls. ByWi 

Eaton & Mains. $1.7 
Stewardship and Hits 

12mo, pp. 170. Philad 

Society. 

MIS( 
The Iiaw of War beti 

Commentary. By P 

Chicago: Callaghan <S 
Semitic Magrio: ItsOrig 

Thompson. 8vo, pp. 
Phrenolog-y; or. The 

By J. G. Spurzheim; 

Elder. Revised from 

pp. 459. J. B. Lippini 
QiUette's Industrial 

Melvin L. Severy. L 

lishingCo. $1.50 net. 
Human Sody and Hea 

pp. 320. American Be 
Bomier's La Fille de 

and Notes, by C. A. Ne 
Profit and Loss in M.e 

pp. 376. Funk & Wag 
Westward 'round the 

12mo, pp. 245. E. P. I 
Annual Keport of th 

Illus., large 8vo, pp. 7 

ing Office. 
Sardonics : Sixteen Skei 

pp. 225. New York : ] 


Hum : A Study of English Wesleyan 

lliam H. Crawford. Illas.. 12mo, pp. 146. 

Snet. 

sions. By Charles A. Cook. Illus., 

elphia : American Baptist Publication 

DBLLANEOUS. 

ween Belli g'erents : A History and 

ercy Bordwell. Large 8vo, pp. 374. 

iCo. 

ins and Development. By R. Campbell 

286. London : Luzac & Co. 

Doctrine of the Mental Phenomena 
edited, with Introduction, by Cyrus 
second American edition; illus., Svo, 

30tt Co. $3. net. 

Solution : World Corporation. By 

arge Svo, pp. 598. Boston: Ball Pub- 

1th. By Alvin Davison. Illus., 12mo, 
)ok Co. 80 cts. 

Boland. Edited, with Introduction 
Ison. 16mo, pp. 116. D. C. Heath & Co 
n. By Alphonso A. Hopkins. 12mo 






You can preserve your current 
numbers of The Dial at a trifl- 
ing cost with the 

T^ERFECT 
1— ^AMPHLET 
X RESERVER 

An improved form of binder 
holding one number or a vol- 
ume as firmly as the leaves of a 
book. Simple in operation, and 
looks like a book on the shelf. 

Substantially made, 
with "The Dial" 
stamped on the back. 

Sent, postpaid, for 

25 CENTS 

The Dial Company, Chicago 


World, By E. S. Wright. Illus. 
)utton & Co. 

e Smithsonian Tnntitution, 1907 
26. Washington: Government Print- 

ches. By Harris Merton Lyon. 12mo 
Metropolitan Syndicate, Inc. 




THE 

Mosher 
Books 

The only collec- 
tion of genu- 
ine hand-made 
paper hooks at 
popular prices 
in ^America. 


THE 

MOSHER BOOKS 

CATALOGUE 




My New Catalogue covering 
every title I have published, 
1891-1908 inclusive, is now 
ready, and will be mailed free 
on request. It is without ques- 
tion a bibelot in itself and as 
choice a production as I can 
hope to offer. 

Thomas B.MosHER 

PORTLAND, MAINE 






F)OOK publishers and book journals are 
■*— ' alike sustained by a book public. The 
people who read book journals are the ones 
who buy books. Daily papers and miscel- 
laneous journals have miscellaneous read- 
ers, some of whom are bookish people. All 
the readers of a book journal are bookish 
people. The Dial is preeminently a book 
journal, published solely in the interests 
of the book class, — the literary and culti- 
vated class. 








NEW YORK'S 

LARGEST BOOK STORE 

Has an exceptional array of Book-Bargains 
to offer collectors in the January 

CLEARANCE CATALOG 

just issued, and which will be sent post free on request to 

HENRY MALKAN 

No8. 42 BROADWAY and 55 NEW STREE T 

Telephones: 3900, 3901, and 3902 Broad. 




'T^HE DIAL is more generally consulted 
*■ and depended upon by Librarians in 
making up orders for books than any 
other American critical journal; it circu- 
lates more widely among retaiIi book- 
sellers than any other journal of its class ; 
it is the accustomed literary guide and aid 
of thousands of private book-buyers, 
covering every section of the country. 






The Bed Rock of Religious Liberty. The Origin of the Golden Rule. 
Who is Responsible for Present Moral Conditions ? The Philosopher's 
Solution of the Devil Problem. JesusChrist's One Church for the World. 
The Philosopher's Protest Agamst the Illogical Teaching of the Atone- 
ment Doctrine. These booklets are all along new lines of thought. 
All sent postpaid for 25 cents. Address H. G. LYONS, 

Stamps taken. Baebyton, Kansas. 




P A pp and unusual BOOKS on South America, 
*^'^**''-' Texas, Mexico, "West Indies, etc. 

LATIN-AMERICA BOOK COMPANY. 
Catalogue on application. 203 Front St., New York City. 





58 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 16, 



The Home 
Poetry Book 

We have all been 
wanting so 

lonO* ^^^^^ Edited by 

IWll^ .^^^^ FRANCIS F. BROWNE 

Editor "Poems of the Civil War," 
Laurel Crowned Verse," etc. Author 
'Everyday Life of Lincoln," etc., etc. 

"GOLDEN POEMS" contains more oi everyone' a 
favorites than any other collection at a popu- 
lar price, and has besides the very best of the 
many fine poems that have been written in 
the last few years. 

Other collections may contain more poems of owe 
kind or more by one author. 

"GOLDEN POEMS" (by British and American 
Authors) has 550 selections from 300 writers, 
covering the whole range of English literature. 



"Golden Poems' 



" GOLDEN POEMS " is a fireside volume for the 
thousands of families who love poetry. It is 
meant for those who cannot afford all the col- 
lected works of their favorite poets— it offers 
the poems they like best, all in one volunte. 

The selections in " GOLDEN POEMS " are classi- 
fied according to their subjects : By the Fire- 
side; Nature's Voices; Dreams and Fancies; 
Friendship and Sympathy; Love; Liberty and 
Patriotism; Battle Echoes; Humor; Pathos and 
Sorrow; The Better Life; Scattered Leaves. 

" GOLDEN POEMS," with its wide appeal, at- 
tractively printed and beautifully bound, 
makes an especially appropriate Christmas 
gift. 

In two styles binding, ornamental cloth and flex- 
ible leather. Of booksellers, or the publishers, 
A. C. McCLURG & CO.. CHICAGO. 
Price, fi.50. 




JAMES D. BRUNER'S 

HUGO'S DRAMATIC 
CHARACTERS 

" Able Hugo criticism." — Courier •Journal. 
" Deeply interesting literary criticism." — The Dial. 
"A fine specimen of literary criticism of the inductive 
type." — The Outlook. 

GINN & COMPANY, PUBLISHERS 



STUDY and PRACTICE of FRENCH in Four Parts 

L. C. BoNAME, Author and Publisher, 1930 Chestnut St., Philadelphia. 
Well-graded series for Preparatory Schools and Colleges. No time 
wasted in superficial or mechanical work. French Text: Numerous 
exercises in conversation, translation, composition. Part I. (60 cts. ): 
Primary grade; thorough drill in Pronunciation. Part II. (90 cts.): 
Intermediate grade; Essentials of Grammar; 4th edition, revised, with 
Vocabulary; most carefully graded. Part HI. {%\..(Xi): Composition, 
Idioms, Syntax; meets requirements for admission to college. Part IV. 
(35c.): handbook 0/ Pronunciation toi advanced grade; concise and com- 
prehensive. Sent to teachers for examination, with a view to introduction. 



\A/IIIIAII D ICUI^IMC on Publishers, Booksellers, 
WILLIAIn lli JlIiMIiO uUi stationers, and Printers 
651-863 SIXTH AVE., Cor. 48th St., NEW YORK 



FRENCH 

AND OTHER 
rOREION 

BOOKS 

Complete cata- 
logs on request. 



BEAD OUB 

ROMANS CHOISIS. 26 Titles. Paper 
60 cts., cloth 85 cts. per volume. CONTES 
CHOISIS. 24 Titles. Paper 25 cts., cloth 
40 cts. per volume. Masterpieces, pure, by well- 
known authors. Read extensively by classes; 
notes in English. List on application. 



I TYPEWRITE 
MANUSCRIPTS 



Reasonable Rates 5509 Greenwood Ave. 

Expert Work CHICAGO 

MYRTLE GOODFELLOW Tel. HP 6607 



MANUSCRIPTS 
TYPEWRITTEN 



EXPERT SERVICE 

MODERATE FEES 
li. E. Swartz, 526 Newport, Chicago 



THE NEW YORK BUREAU OF REVISION 

Established in 1880. LETTERS OF CRITICISM. EXPERT 
REVISION OF MSS. Advice as to publication. Address 
DR. TITUS M. COAN, 70 FIFTH AVE., NEW YORK CITY 

'* W^t I9^emoir0 of a ifailuw " 

WITH AN ACCOUNT OF THE MAN AND HIS MANUSCRIPT. 
By DANIEL W. KITTREDGE. Cloth, $1.25 net. 

U. P. JAMES, Bookseller, Cincinnati. 

F. M. HOI1I.Y 

Authors' and Publishers' Bepresentatlve 
Circulars sent upon request. 156 Fifth Avenue. New Yokk. 

RnOK'Q ALL OUT- OP- PRINT BOOKS SUPPLIED, 

t*"VylVS. no matter on what subject. Write us. We can g«t 
you any book ever published. Please state wants. Catalogue faee. 
BAKER'S QREAT BOOK SHOP, 14-16 Bright St., Bisiuicsram, Bhs. 

PRIVATE LIBRARY FOR SALE 

Rare and Valuable Books in Science, Mechanics, Literature, 
Shakespeareana. Prices low. Send for catalogue. 

JOHN C. PHIN, Paterson, N. J. 

SCARCE AND FINE BOOK CATALOGUE 

Issued monthly and mailed free on request Always interest- 
ing. Prices Lowest. Send for one. JOSEPH McDONOUGH CO. 
(Established 1870.) 98 State Street, Albany, N.Y. 

"TOM JONES " GRATIS! Send address and receive Fielding's 
masterpiece, cloth bound, all charges paid. Richest and rarest of 
novels; Scott called it "true to life and inimitable." Hard to find in 
bookstores and then costly. Send only Si. for the Pathfinder a year — 
the well-known national weekly review — and get book free. 

PATHFINDER PUBLISHING CO., Washington, D. C. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



59 



MODERN PHILOLOGY 

THIS JOURNAL, the leading periodical of its kind in this country, will contain in the January number 
an article on the authorship of Piers Plowman by M. Jusserand, French Ambassador to the United 
States. Professor Manly, of the University of Chicago, some time ago announced the discovery of a 
composite authorship in this poem. No less than five hands, Professor Manly believes, can be traced in 
the poem. M. Jusserand replies with a vigorous defense of the single-author theory. The journal is 
issued quarterly. $3.00 a year, single copies $1.00, foreign postage 41 cents. 

CLASSICAL PHILOLOGY 

A QUARTERLY MAGAZINE devoted to expert study in the field of classical languages, literatures, 
and archaeology. The list of contributors includes the chief scholars of this country and many of 
those in Europe. The journal is now beginning its fourth volume. Issued quarterly. $2.50 a year, 
single copies 75 cents, foreign postage 23 cents. 

THE CLASSICAL JOURNAL 

THIS PERIODICAL is devoted to the interests of classical teachers in academies and colleges. 
It aims to voice their needs and aspirations, to keep them informed on events of interest to them, 
and to serve as a rallying point and a bond of union. Textbooks are reviewed promptly and carefully, 
and all events of interest to classical teachers are fully described. Published monthly except July, 
August, September, and October. $1.50 a year, single copies 25 cents, foreign postage 24 cents. 

ADDRESS DEPARTMENT 20 

CHICAGO THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO PRESS newyork 

For England: LUZAC AND COMPANY, 46 Great Russell St., W. C, London. 



MSS, 



TYPEWRITTEN, 30 eta. per 1000 words; with carbon 
duplicate, 45 cts. P. SCHULTETUS, Coulterville, III. 



M AGGS BROS. London, W. C, England 

Dealers in Rare Books, Prints, and Autographs 

Voyages and Travels. Early Printed Books. Illuminated 
MSS. First Editions. Sporting and Coloured Plate Books. 
General Literature. 

Also Fine Portraits and Fancy Subjects (chiefly Eighteenth 
Century). Early Engravings by the Old Masters. Modem 
Etchings by Whistler and others. 

Autograph Letters and MSS. of great Historic and Literary 
interest. 

Classified Catalogues post free on application. 

Customers' "desiderata" searched for and reported 

free of charge. 



OUR LIBRARY SERVICE 

ll/E have recently supplemented our service to Lihraries. by 
^ * procuring Out-of-Print and Scarce Booka, and by importing 
English books. 

Our EDUCATIONAL CATALOGUE contains a full list 
of Supplementary Heading, indicating the grade to which each 
title is adapted. 

Our CLEARANCE CATALOGUE contams overstock at 
special prices, and an alphabetical arrangement by authors of all 
cheap editions of Recent Popular Fiction and Standard Library 
12mo8 in one list. 

Our LI BRARY CATALOGU E of 3500 approved titles, fol- 
lowing A. L. A. lines, is of great convenience to small libraries. 

Our MONTHLY BULL ET I N notices promptly every new 
book of importance. 

These Catalogues are sent on request. Three notable features of 
our service are : promptness, thoroughness, and low prices. 

THE BAKER & TAYLOR CO. 

WHOLESALE DEALERS IN THE BOOKS OF ALL PUBLISHERS 

33 East Seventeenth Street, New York 



OF INTEREST 
to LIBRARIANS 

T X /"E are now handling a larger per- 
^ ~ centage of orders from Public 
Libraries, School and College 
Libraries, than any other dealer in 
the entire country. This is because 
our book stock, covering all classes 
and grades of books, is more com- 
plete than that of any other book- 
seller in the United States, enabling 
us to make full and prompt ship- 
ments. Also, because we have a well 
equipped department looking after 
this special branch of the business. 

A. C. McCLURG & CO. 

UBRARY DEPARTMENT CHICAGO 



60 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 16, 1909. 



^3n^ Tyux.^^^ 



JU^kJL 












p^XURRENT 
LITERATURE 

t 



f^i^ 



[lL= 



AN ILLUSTRATED 
NEWS MAGAZINE 
OF CURRENT LIFE 
INDISPENSABLE. TO 
BUS^- MEN & WOMEN 



*(• 



b 



CURRENT Literature is an illustrated 
review of the world's opinions and the 
world's events. It keeps the busy man and 
woman thoroughly posted, and is an ideal 
magazine for every home — of interest to 
each member of the family. Every de- 
partment of human interest is treated: 



Review of the World. 
Persons in the Fore- 
ground. 
Literature and Art. 
Music and the Drama. 



Science and Discovery. 
Religion and Ethics. 
Recent Poetry. 
Recent Fiction. 
The Humor of Life. 



These departments are edited, not 
for specialists, but for intelligent men 
and women who wish to know what the 
specialists are doing, and bring to readers 
the thought-harvest of two hemispheres. 



There is nothing technical, dry or academic, but every page is alive, 
crisp and brimful of just the sort of matter that we all want to know 
about and would be sorry to have missed. 

This magazine is not an organ of personal views or partisan interests. 
It is absolutely independent of any trammels, political, religious or financial, 
that might interfere with the impartial presentation of the truth as seen from 
many angles. The Review of the World (32 pages) is personally conducted 
by the editor-in-chief. Dr. Edward J. Wheeler, and comprises a compre- 
hensive summing up of the news of the world and its interpretation. This 
department is of surpassing interest and value to its readers because it brings 
into proper perspective the big events of the month — the vital things, those 
that keep the world moving. 

Ask your newsdealer for a copy or write us for a Sample. 25c. a copy, $3.00 a Year 

Current Literature Publishing Co., 41 W. 25th St., New York 



THE DIAL PKESS, PINK ARTS BUILDING, CHICAOO 



THE DIAL 

J! SEMI-MONTHLY JOURNAL OF 

Edited BY \Volume XLVI. PTTTPAPO TTTPTl 1 1 QftQ 70 ct». a copi/.f Fine Abts Building 

FRANCIS F. BROWNE J No. SIS. V^XlJ-VyAU^W, -T-Hi-D. 1, X»Ui;. $t. a year. I 203 Michigan Blvd. 





Lincoln Centenary 

1809 February 12 1909 

POPULAR AND VALUABLE BOOKS ON LINCOLN 

JUST PUBLISHED 

THE ANCESTRY of ABRAHAM LINCOLN 

By J. HENRY LEA and J. R. HUTCHINSON 

An important new contribution to Lincoln lore, in which his English ancestry is traced four generations further back 
than it has been before, and many new facts concerning his ancestors in this country are brought out. Handsomely printed 
and richly illustrated in photogravure. 

Special Edition of 1000 copies. Quarto, $10.00 net. Postpaid. 

A LIFE of LINCOLN for BOYS and GIRLS 

By CHARLES W. MOORES 

A simple, clear, and interesting story of Lincoln's life written particularly for younger readers. The chief events in his 
public life are given in such a way as to reveal the unique personality and the great character of the man. 
With six half-tone illustrations. 60 cents net. Postpaid. 

STANDARD WORKS 

LINCOLN: MASTER OF MEN By alonzo rothschild 

" The best book, both in style and in content, yet written on this phase of Lincoln's character. It is one of the books 
that will last." — Chicago Mecord- Herald. 

Anniversary Edition. With photogravure portrait. Crown 8vo, $1.50 net. Postpaid, $1.65. 

ABRAHAM LINCOLN By carl SCHURZ and TRUMAN H. BARTLETT 

" This is a volume that no one interested in the subject can afford to overlook. Schurz's tribute has an imperishable 
place in the literature of the subject. But were the contents of the volume less worthy, the book itself is an artistic 
achievement of which the publishers have every reason to be proud." — jVew York Post. 

Special Edition of 1000 copies, of which the greater part have already been sold. 
Quarto, $10.00 net. Postpaid. 

ABRAHAM LINCOLN By john t. morse, jr. 

" Mr. Morse has the biographical instinct. He knows what things to select and what to reject to illustrate a great 
career, and his power of condensation is admirable." — New York Post. 

In two volumes. With portrait. $2.50. 

THE GETTYSBURG SPEECH LINCOLN'S EMANCIPATION 

and Other Papers PROCLAMATION 

By ABRAHAM LINCOLN A Broadside limited to 175 copies, specially printed 

pi»B^irf ^Po®J[!^*^^K^'*®'***'^'"f ^®«®*;*°';."^®*'*^'''^°°^^*°'^ on handmade paper under the direction of Mr. Bruce 
eisewnere. i'aper, 15 cents net. Postpaid. „ „„„»., „.,,,.. 

Together with Schurz's Lincoln, one volume, linen. ^°^^"- 20x30 inches. Suitable for framing. 
40 cents net. Postpaid. $4.0o net. Postpaid. 

Special Circulars describing these books will be sent Free on request to the Publishers. 

HOUGHTON MIFFLIN COMPANY BOSTON AND NEW YORK 



62 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 1, 



IMPORTANT 1908 BOOKS FOR LIBRARIES 

Published by LITTLE, BROWN, & COMPANY, Boston, Mass, 



(Btmtsd Eiterature 

HOWE. MAUD. SUN AND SHADOW IN SPAIN. 

With four plates in color and numerous other illustrations. 
410 + 8 pp. Cloth, $3.00 net ; half morocco, $5.50 net. 
" More personal and intimate than either ' Roma Beata ' or 
' Two in Italy.' " — Chicago Record-Herald. 

SHELIiE'?. HENST C. UNTRODDEN ENGLISH 
WAYS. With plates in color, half-tones, and illustrations 
in text from photographs taken by the author. 341 + 15 pp. 
Cloth, $3.00 net ; half morocco, $5.50 net. 
" He has brought to light many forgotten pages of English 
history, and he has led us deep into the heart of many forgotten 
scenes in literary England." — Hoston Transcript. 

JAMES, GEORGE WHARTON. THROUGH RA. 
MONA'S COUNTRY. Fully illu«trated from photo- 
graphs. 406 + 11 pp. Cloth, $2.00 net; half morocco, $4.00 net. 
" Reveals unsuspected facts regarding the true and fictitious 

features of Mrs. Jackson's story." — Philadelphia Press. 

WHITING, LILIAN. PARIS THE BEAUTIFUL. 

Colored frontispiece and numerous plates. 399 pp. Cloth, 

$2.00 net ; half morocco, $4.00 net. 

"She pictures outside Paris for us, but she turns an equal 
attention to the other Paris, the Paris of art and thought, imagin- 
ative Paris, the spirit of a city unusually original and distinc- 
tive." — Bookseller, Netvsdealer, and stationer. 

OURTIN, JEREMIAH. THE MONGOLS IN RUSSIA. 
Companion volume of " The Mongols." Photogravure frontis- 
piece and map. 481 + 20 pp. $3.00 net. 
" His work possesses vivid and dramatic qualities, and 

embodies facts inaccessible to the ordinary student of history." 

— Rochester Herald. 

MAHAN, CAPT. A. T. NAVAL ADMINISTRATION 
AND WARFARE. 409 + 14 pp. $1.50 net. 
" Illuminating essays. Wise suggestion and patriotic instruc- 
tion find place on nearly every page of this valuable book." 
— Philadelphia North American, 



iFiction 



BOURGET. PAUL. THE WEIGHT OF THE NAME. 

Translated by George Burnham Ives. 349 pp. $1.50. 

"Easily the leader among recent works of fiction. Here is 
more than a powerful story excellently told. Without offering 
a line of historical writing, M. Bourget's pages present the 
social history of France through the transitions of late genera- 
tions, as long chapters of a formal account might fail to do." 
— New York World. 

GODFREY, HOLLIS. THE MAN WHO ENDED 

WAR. Illustrated. 301pp. $1.50. 

" One of the most startling books of the season, and from a 
literary standpoint one of the best. This is really a sterling 
piece of work." — Chicago Unity. 

OPPENHEIM, E. PHILLIPS. THE LONG ARM OF 

MANNISTER. Illus. 278 pp. $1.50. 

" Mr. Oppenheim hits the bull's eye of popular taste with the 
certainty of a marksman who has fixed his rifle in a vise. He 
has always the same success at chaining sensations together 
and hiding one mystery inside another. Unlike most detective 
stories his plots are not mechanical and his people not marion- 
ettes." — The Independent. 



iPlCtf on — Continued 



BURTON, RICHARD. THREE OF A KIND. Illus. 

267 + 8 pp. $1.50. 

' ' It has humor and quaintness ; it exalts, not the fashions of 
the hour, but the eternal symbols of honor — courage, simplicity, 
loyalty, unselfishness. ' Dun ' deserves to line up beside Rab, 
and the mute friend of Ulysses, and Hogarth's ' Trump,' and 
even the brave ' Barry,' whose noble career is memorialized at 
Berne." — New York Times. 

ANDERSON, ADA WOODRUFF. THE HEART OF 

THE RED FIRS. Illus. 813 pp. $1.50. 

" The very breath of the wilderness, wild, pungent, enchant- 
ing, seems to blow through this good novel. The tense yet 
repressed and low-keyed life of a new, undeveloped country 
thrills from it. And there is effective character drawing as 
well." — Chicago Record-Herald. 

WARNER. ANNE. AN ORIGINAL GENTLEMAN. 

Frontispiece. 339 pp. $1.50. 

" Sympathy far removed from the yiaudlin and wit untainted 
by cynicism ; clear understanding of character and crisp style — 
these are her conspicuous virtues." — Boston Advertiser. 

COMSTOCK. HARRIET T. JANET OF THE DUNES. 

Illus. 297 +8 pp. $1.50. 

" The breath of the sea is in it and the freedom of the dunes. 
The heroine is an exquisite creation." — Margaret Sangster. 



Cfi(Hiten'0 Book0 



RAY. ANNA CHAPIN. SIDNEY AT COLLEGE. 

Illustrated. 289 pp. $1.50. 

" ' When in doubt about a new book, buy an old one by Miss 
Ray,' is the maxim by which a competent maiden aunt guides 
successfully the Christmas shopping for her nieces and others. 
It is a good rule, the merit of which will not be impaired by the 
new volume of the Sidney Series. This is among the very best 
of the college books, and it neither idealizes nor minimizes the 
work, the fun, and the opportunities." — iJo»<on Christian 
Register. 

TILESTON. MARY W. CHILDREN'S TREASURE- 
TROVE OF PEARLS. Illus. 378 + 9 pp. $1.50. 
" A capital idea has been carried out by Mrs. Tileston. She 
has gone back to the story books of fifty years ago for selec- 
tions, and these are so well forgotten that the stories will be 
perfectly new to little readers : newer than most of the novelties 
gleaned from folklore, for these are pretty sure to be only vari- 
ants of stories with which they are familiar." — New York Sun. 

ELLIS, KATHARINE RUTH. THE WIDE-AWAKE 

GIRLS. Illus. 317 pp. $1.50. 

" So cleverly and interestingly written that the other volumes 
will be looked forward to with impatience. The book abounds 
in bubbling humor and keenest wit, and the author shows a clear 
understanding of young girls' natures at school both abroad and 
at home. The German-American atmosphere of the book is 
delightful." — i?oston Journal. 

JOHNSON, CLIFTON. THE ELM-TREE FAIRY 

BOOK. Illus. 338 + 13 pp. $1.50. 

" Folk stories from different countries are here brought to- 
gether in the third volume of fairy tales collected by Mr. John- 
son. A much larger proportion of them are unfamiliar than is 
usually the case with such collections." — Boston Christian 
Register. 



LITTLE, BROWN, & COMPANY, PUBLISHERS, BOSTON, MASS. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



63 



Now Ready : 



Mrs. Henry de la Pasture's 



CATHERINE'S CHILD 

Cloth, $1.20 net. (Postage 14 cents) 

"O EADERS of Mrs, de la Pasture's previous novels will welcome this new 
■'-^ one in her best manner. The author's name is sufficient guaranty for 
" Catherine's Child," which is one of the most charming books she has written. 
There is delightful character drawing and a wealth of the atmosphere that 
attracted people in " Peter's Mother," The scene is laid in London and 
Devon, which furnishes a picturesque setting for the story. 



OTHER BOOKS BY MRS. DE LA PASTURE 

Each Volume $1.50 



PETER'S MOTHER 

"The whole story is delightful," 

— Church Standard. 
"One of the most charming novels it 

has been our good fortune to meet." 
— Boston Herald. 

THE MAN FROM AMERICA: 

A Sentimental Comedy 

"Comedy of the most charming kind." 

— New York Times. 
"We do not know a more just and 

appreciative study of a cultivated and 
thoroughly American American than 
the picture of Iron P. Brett," 

— Outlook. 

CATHERINE OF CALAIS 

"We highly commend the new novel — 
* Catherine of Calais' — by Mrs, de la 
Pasture." — Outlook. 

"It is pleasant to be able to acknow- 
ledge so clean and so sweet a book," 

— New York Times. 



THE LONELY LADY OF 
GROSVENOR SQUARE 

"A charming successor to ' Peter's 
Mother.' " — North American. 

"In 'The Lonely Lady' the author is 
at her best," — St. Paul Dispatch. 

THE GREY KNIGHT 

" The subsidiary characters in the beau- 
tiful and engrossing story are all drawn 
with fine literary skill, and this novel 
will take its place among the best of 
the year," — Boston Herald. 

" The story is told with Mrs, de la Pas- 
ture's delightful appreciation of the fine 
shades." — Chicago Evening Post. 

DEBORAH OF TOD'S 

" The same charm of style that made 
' Peter's Mother ' a favorite," 

— Chicago Evening Post. 

"In ' Deborah ' we would not have one 
word eliminated," — Chicago Tribune. 



E. P. DUTTON & CO. 



31 WEST 23D ST. 



NEW YORK CITY 



64 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 1, 



INDISPENSABLE BOOKS FOR LIBRARIES 



Modern Constitutions By Waiter Fairieigh Dodd 

This collection contains the texts, in English translation, where English is not the original language, of the 
constitutions or fundamental laws of the Argentine nation, Australia, Austria-Hungary, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, 
Chili, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Russia, Spain, Sweden, 
Switzerland, and the United States. These constitutions have not heretofore been available in any one English 
collection, and a number of them have not before appeared in English translation. Each constitution is preceded 
by a brief historical introduction, and is followed by a select list of the most important books dealing with the 
government of the country under consideration. 2 vols., 750 pages, 8vo, cloth; net $5.00; postpaid, $5.42. 

Primary Elections By C. Edward Merriam 
For students of American political history and especially of American party history, this volume will be par- 
ticidarly valuable. It gives a clear accoimt of the various laws and cases and a critical discussion of the present 
primary question. The absence of literature on this subject makes the appearance of the book especially timely. 
Many general readers as well as the special students will find it of interest. 

300 pages, 12mo, cloth; net $1.25; postpaid $1.35. 

Industrial Insurance in the United States By Charles Richmond Henderson 

This describes the systems of industrial insurance in Germany, Italy, Sweden, Denmark, Austria, Spain, 
Finland, and Australia: it explains the plans now used by American business firms, such as Swift & Co., Studebaker 
Bros., The International Harvester Co., Western Electric Co., New York Edison Co., Steinway & Sons, and the 
Standard Oil Co. Compidsory insurance is no more unreasonable than compulsory education or compulsory tax- 
ation. It is a logical social development, and this book is the most comprehensive analysis of the movement yet 
published. 448 pages, 8vo, cloth; net $2.00; postpaid $2.19. 



CHICAGO 



ADDRESS DEPARTMENT 20 

THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO PRESS 



NEW YORK 



Literature and the 
American College 

ESSAYS IN DEFENSE OF THE 
HUMANITIES 

By IRVING BABBITT 

" Now and then out of a mass of books on educational 
topics — ' words, words, words,' — there emerges a volume 
of real value and epoch-making significance. Such is Pro- 
fessor Babbitt's discussion of the problem confronting the 
teachers of ancient and modern literature in American 
colleges. It is noteworthy for its insight, its good sense, 
its courage, and withal its wide philosophical perspective." 
— South Atlantic Quarterly. 

" In the murky state of the educational atmosphere 
Professor Irving Babbitt's ' Literature and the American 
College ' comes like a stroke of clear lightning. For 
cutting satire nothing equal to this arraignment has been 
produced since Lowell's day. And it not only sets forth 
the evil of the present system of instruction, but points 
the way constructively to a wholesome reform." — The 
Independent. 

*' To all scholarly persons the volume will be interest- 
ing, but to the graduate at large it will be much more than 
that. If he absorbs and understands its message, the 
reading of it may rank as an experience." — Yale Alumni 
Weekly. 

$I.2S net. Postpaid, $1.36. 

Boston Houghton Mifflia Company New York 



DAYBREAK IN TURKEY 

By JAMES L. BARTON 

Turkey is attempting to carry out one of the most stupen- 
dous reformations ever undertaken by a nation. It amounts 
to a sweeping revolution brought about without the shed- 
ding of blood. The eyes of all the world are turned to the 
Bosphorus as her new parliament assembles and attempts to 
enact her constitution into practical laws. 

This is one of the most timely books of the year. 

The author of " Daybreak in Turkey " especially qualified 
himself for producing this work by a residence of seven years 
in the heart of the country. He has personally visited the 
principal cities in the empire, having travelled upon horse- 
back and otherwise many thousands of miles from Constan- 
tinople to the head waters of the Tigris and Euphrates 
Bivers, across Armenia and Koordistan again and again, 
and into Mesopotamia and Syria. 

His practical knowledge of some of the langruages spoken 
by the people of the country gave him special facilities for 
securing accurate first-hand information from all classes. 
His ofiice as Secretary of the American Board has helped 
him in the closest relations with both Americans and natives 
in all parts of Asia Minor, Northern Syria, Armenia, and 
Koordistan for the last decade and more. These are the 
regions that are most closely related to the administration 
of the country, and the ones most disturbed politically and 
socially during the past century. His official responsibil- 
ities have demanded a knowledge of all international ques- 
tions relating to the protection in the country of American 
interests. 

DESCRIPTION OF BOOK 

sVi inches length, 5% inches width. 296 pages, 6 full-page 
illustrations , decorative binding, gold top. Price, $1.60 net. 

Cl)e Pilgrim pre$0 

BOSTON, 14 Beacon St. CHICAQO. 175 Wabash Ave. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



65 



NEW BOOKS F 


OR LIBRARIES 


Published by J. B. LIPPINCOTT COMPANY, PHILADELPHIA, during 1908 


MISCELLANEOUS 


EMERSON, ARTHUR I., and WEED, CLARENCE M. 

Our Trees: How to Know Them 

Illustrated. Size, T'A x 10 inches. Cloth, $3.00 net. 


MAYNARD. SAMUEL T. 

The Small Country Place 

Illustrated. 12mo. Cloth, $1.50 net. 


FROBENIUS, LEO 

The Childhood of Man 

Translated by A. H. Keane. LL.D. 
Illustrated. Octavo. Cloth, $3.00 net. 

FURNESS, HORACE HOWARD, Jr. 

Richard the Third 

The New Variorum Edition of 

Shakespeare 

Royal Octavo. Extra Cloth, uncut edges, gilt top, 
$4.00 net ; Three-quarter Levant, $5.00 net. 


WALTON, GEORGE LINCOLN, M.D. 

Why Worry? 

Frontispiece. 12mo. Cloth, $1.00 net. 
WHARTON, ANNE HOLLINGSWORTH 

An English Honeymoon 

Illustrated. 12mo. Cloth, $150 net. 
WEED, CLARENCE M., D.Sc. 

Wild Flower Families 

80 illustrations from photographs. 12mo. Cloth, 
$1.50 net. 


HISTORY, BIOGRAl 


^/fr, AND TRAVEL 


BRUMBAUGH, MARTIN G., Ph.D., LL.D. 

The Life and Worlcs of Christopher 
Doclc 

Illustrated. Octavo. Cloth, in a box, $5.00 net. 


MOORE, JOHN BASSETT 

The Works of James Buchanan 

To be completed in 12 volumes. Volumes I. to V. 
published during 1908. Octavo. Cloth, per volume, 
$5.00 net. 

PENNELL, ELIZABETH ROBINS, and PENNELL. 
JOSEPH 

The Life of James McNeill Whistler 

Two volumes. Illustrated in half-tone, photo- 
gravure, and line. Crown Quarto. Half Cloth, 
$10.00 net, per set. 

CRES80N, W. P., F.R.G.8. 

Persia: The Awakening East 

Illustrated. Octavo. Cloth, $3.50 net. 
MACGOWAN, REV. J. 

Side-lights on Chinese Life 

Illustrated. Octavo. Cloth, with gilt top, $3.75 net. 


de MONVEL, ROGER BOUTET 

Beau Brummell and His Times 

Illustrated. Octavo. Cloth, with gilt top, $2.50 net"; 
Three-quarter Levant, $5.00 net. 

FISHER. SYDNEY GEORGE 

The Struggle for American 
Independence 

Two volumes. Illustrated. Crown Octavo. Cloth, 
gilt top, per set, $4.00 net. 

RA8MUS8EN. KNUD 

The People of the Polar North 

Compiled from the Danish by G. Herring. Illus- 
trated. Large 8vo. Cloth, $5.00 net. 


FICTION ANL 


) JUVENILES 


BRUDNO. EZRA S. 

The Tether 

12mo. Cloth. $1.50. 


8COTT, JOHN REED 

The Princess Dehra 

Illustrated. 12mo. Cloth, $1.50. 


CAREY, ROSA NOUCHETTE 

The Sunny Side of the Hill 

12mo. Cloth. $1.50. 


ANDERSEN, HANS 

Fairy Tales 

Illustrated. Large square 8vo. Cloth, $1.50. 


LUTZ, GRACE LIVINGSTON HILL 

Marcia Schuyler 

Illustrated. 12mo. aoth. $1.50. 


FORBES-LINDSAY. C. H. 

Daniel Boone: Backwoodsman 

Illustrated. 12mo. Cloth, $1.50. 


MACVANE, EDITH 

The Duchess of Dreams 

Frontispiece. 12mo. Cloth, $1.50. 


LEE, HOLME 

Legends from Fairyland 

12mo. Illustrated. Cloth, $1.50. 


MACDONALD, GEORGE 

The Princess and Curdie New Holiday Edit 


ion. Illustrated. Octavo. Decorated Cloth, $1.60. 


LEA, JOHN 

The Romance of Bird Life 

Illustrated. Crown 8vo. Cloth. $1.50 net. 


HYRST. H. W. Q. 

Adventures among Wild Beasts 

Illustrated. Crown 8vo. Cloth. $1.50 net. 


GREW. E. S.. M.A. 

The Romance of Modern Qeology 

Illustrated. Crown 8vo. Cloth. $1.50 net. 


STEAD. RICHARD. B.A. 

Adventures on High Seas 

Illustrated. Crown 8vo. Cloth. $1.50 net. 


ELLIOT, Q. F. SCOTT 

The Romance of Early British Life 

Illustrated. Crown Octavo. Cloth, $1.50 net. 


GILLIAT. EDWARD. M.A. 

Heroes of Modern Crusades 

Illustrated. Octavo. Cloth, $1.50 net. 


DAWSON. E. C, M.A. 

Heroines of Missionary Adventure lUus 


trated. Crown 8vo. Cloth. $1.50 net. 



66 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 1, 



Indispensable Books for Every Library 
at Less than One-third Published Price 

T TAVING secured the entire remaining stock of the original 
-■--■■ "Muses' Library," pubHshed by Charles Scribner's Sons 
in conjunction with Lawrence & Bullen of London, we are 
able to offer this well-known series at less than one-third the 
original price. The volumes are beautifully printed and bound, 
and fully edited by prominent English scholars. Each contains 
a portrait in photogravure. A list of the titles is given below. 



POEMS OF HENRY VAUGHAN 
Edited by E. K. Chambers, with 
an Introduction by H. C. 
Beeching. 
Two volumes. 



" Vaughan may occasionally out-Herbert Herbert in metaphors and 
emblems, but in spite of them, and even through them, it is easy to see 
that he has a passion for Nature for her own sake ; that he has observed 
her works ; that indeed the world is to him no less than a veil of the 
Eternal Spirit, whose presence may be felt in any, even the smallest, 
part." — H. C. Beeching. 



POEMS OF JOHN KEATS 

Edited by G. Thorn Drury, with 
an Introduction by Robert 
Bridges. 
Two volumes. 



" What was deepest in the mind of Keats was the love of loveliness for 
its own sake, the sense of its rightful and preeminent power; and in the 
singleness of worship which he gave to Beauty, Keats is especially the 
ideal poet."— Stopford Brooke. 



POEMS OF THOMAS CAMPION 
Edited by A. H. Bullen. 
One volume. 



"Few indeed are the poets who have handled our stubborn English 
language with such masterly deftness. So long as ' elegancy, facility, 
and golden cadence of poesy ' are admired. Campion's fame will be 
secure." — A. H. Bullen. 



POETRY OF GEORGE WITHER 
Edited by Frank Sidgwick. 
Two volumes. 



"The poems of Wither are distinguished by a hearty homeliness of 
manner and a plain moral speaking. He seems to have passed his life 
in one continual act of innocent self-pleasing." — Charles Lamb. 



POEMS OF WILLIAM BROWNE 
OF TAVISTOCK 
Edited by Gordon Goodwine, 
with an Introduction by A. H. 
Bullen. 
Two volumes. 



" Browne is like Keats in being before all things an artist, he has the 
same intense pleasure in a fine line or a fine phrase for its own sake. . . . 
In his best passages — and they are not few — he will send to the listener 
wafts of pure and delightful music." — W. T. Arnold. 



POEMS OF SAMUEL TAYLOR 
COLERIDGE 

Edited by Richard Garnett. 
One volume. 



"Although the best poetical work of Coleridge is extremely small in 
bulk . . . yet his poetry at its best reaches the absolute limits of English 
verse as yet written." — George Saintsbury. 



Reduced from $1.75 to 
50c. a Volume, Postpaid 



BROWNE'S BOOKSTORE 

THE FINE ARTS BUILDING 

MICHIGAN BLVD. CHICAGO 



1909] THE DIAL 67 

From the HOUSE OF CASSELL 



BOOKS OF INTEREST TO LIBRARIANS 



WOMEN OF ALL NATIONS : A Record of their Characteristics, Habits, Man- 
ners, Customs, and Influence. In two quarto volumes, bound in half leather. $12.00 net. 

Profusely illustrated with hundreds of Reproductions of Striking and Original Photographs taken by experts in 
all parts of the world, together with a Series of Magnificent Plates in Colors from a number of Paintings expressly 
executed for this work by Norman Hardy. 

The text is written in a fascinating style, instructive and pleasing. The following are some of the contributors : 
Professor OtisT. Mason, of the Smithsonian Institution; Mr. W. W. Skeat, Mr. Archibald Colquhoun, Dr. Theodor 
Koch-Griinberg, Berlin Museum of Volkerkunde ; Mr. Edgar Thurston, of the Madras Museum ; Mr. Shelford, late 
of the Sarawak Museum ; Miss A. Werner, Mr. W. Crook, B.A., and others. 

Whilst the text is of the highest value the illustrations are fully as remarkable both for their originality and 
interest. For many months the Editors were in communication with experts in all parts of the world with a view to 
securing the best and most striking photographs. Ninety-eight per cent of these illustrations have ne'ver before been 
published. 

NAPOLEON AND HIS FELLOW TRAVELLERS By Clement Shorter. With 
Eight Plates. $4.00 net. 

A new book on Napoleon can only be justified by the fact that it contains interesting new material or material 
not generally available to the public. Mr. Clement Shorter has brought together some rare and little known books 
that have never been reprinted since their first publication, wellnigh a century ago. These include the " Narrative of 
William Warden," which went through many editions at the time of its publication and provoked much criticism. 
This little book has been edited and annotated with the assistance of Warden's grandson, who has placed private 
documents at the editor's disposal. 

A rare pamphlet, privately printed by Lord Littleton, gives an account of interesting conversations with 
Napoleon on board the Northumberland that are known to few students of the epoch. The vivid story of Napoleon's 
appearance and conversation at the time of his surrender, by George Home, in " The Diary of an Aristocrat," a book 
suppressed on publication, also makes attractive reading, as does a little known letter of Ross, the captain of the 
Northumberland on its voyage to St. Helena. 

GEORGE BORROW By R. A. J. Walling. With Frontispiece. $1.75 net. 

The elusive personality of George Borrow, author of "The Bible in Spain," and "Lavengro," is a perpetual 
source of interest. Mr. Walling has managed to throw new light on George Borrow, and a considerable amount of 
fresh matter relating to his strange career is embodied in this volume. 

"The Borrovian, or would-be Borrovian, may read this life and appreciation with pleasure." — The Times 
(London). 

THE BOOK OF CEYLON By Henry W. Cave, M.A., F.R.G.S., Member of the Asiatic 
Society, Author of " Golden Tips," "The Ruined Cities of Ceylon," etc. With over 700 
Illustrations from Photographs by the Author, and including Six Maps and Plans, and 
Colored Frontispiece. Cloth gilt, $4.75 net. 

BYWAYS OF COLLECTING By Ethel Deane. With upwards of 60 Illustrations. 
$2.50 net. 
" 'Byways of Collecting' is recommended alike to the connoisseur, the neophyte, and the outer barbarian." 
— Chicago Tribune. 

CASSELL AND COMPANY, LIMITED 

43-45 EAST NINETEENTH STREET NEW YORK CITY 



68 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 1, 1909. 



THE BEST BOOK ABOUT ABRAHAM LINCOLN IS 

Abraham Lincoln: The Boy and the Man 

By James Morgan with specially interesting portraits, etc. Cloth, fl.50. 

The Chicago Tribune editorially recommends reading some account of the whole of Lincoln's life, suggests 
Mr. Morgan's book as the best of three named, and says : " It tells the life story well. It is interesting. 
It is well written. It gives the significant facts one wants to know." 



The Assassination of Abraham 
Lincoln and Its Expiation 
By David Miller De Witt 

Author of " The Impeachment and Trial of Andrew 
Johnson." Cloth, 8vo. Price, probably, $3.00. 



Lincoln : A Centenary Ode 
By Percy MacKaye 



Author of "Jeanne d'Arc," etc. "A man to be 
reckoned with among American poets," says the Sun. 

Cloth, 50 cents net. 



THE BEST SELLING NOVEL OF 1908. 

Mr. Crewe's Career 
By Winston Churchill 

Author of " Coniston," etc. Illustrated. Cloth, $1 SO. 



OTHER WIDELY-READ FICTION OF 1908. 

The Singer Trilogy 

By Mr. F. Marion Crawford 

Fair Margaret The Set, 

The Primadonna Boxed, 

The Diva's Ruby $i.BO. 

Miss Zona Gale's 
Friendship Village 

By the Author of " The Loves of Pelleas and Etarre." 

Cloth, $1.50. 

Mr. Robert Herrick's Together 

By the author of "The Common Lot," etc. Cloth, $1.50. 
THE NEW MACMILLAN NOVELS. 

The Three Brothers 

By Eden Phillpotts author of 

"The Secret Woman," " The American Prisoner," 
" Children of the Mist," etc. Cloth, $1.50. 

One Immortality 
By H. Fielding Hall 



Author of " The Inward Light.' 



Cloth, $1.50. 



Jimbo 



By Algernon Blackwood 



A fantasy woven about a child ; the sort of book that 
grown-ups who know children enjoy. In press. 



The Straw 



By Rina Ramsay 



Alive with the swing and go of good sport in an 
English hunting county. Cloth, $1.50. 



NEW OR FORTHCOMING BOOKS. 

The Ancient Greek Historians 

By John B. Bury (Harvard Lectures) 



Author of "The History of Greece," etc. 

Cloth, 8vo. 



$2.t5 net. 



The Acropolis of Athens 

By Martin L. D'Ooge University of Mich. 

Cloth, Svo. Illustrated. $l,.00 net; by mail, $U.Z8. 

Applied Mechanics for Engineers 

A Text-Book for Engineering Students. 

By E. L. Hancock Assistant Prof essor of 
Applied Mechanics, Purdue University . 

$^.00 net; by mail $S.1S, 

Artificial Waterways and 
Commercial Development 
By A. Barton Hepburn, LL.D. 

Author of " The Contest for Sound Money." 

Cloth, Svo. $1.00 net; by mail, $1.06. 

The Psychology of Singing 
By David C. Taylor 

"Of unusual value and may mark the beginning of a 
new epoch in vocal instruction." — The Nation. 

Cloth, $1.50; by mail, $1.6^. 

Col. J. H. Patterson S illustrated stories of 

The Man-Eaters of Tsavo 

President Roosevelt has said that one of the most 
remarkable books of adventure ever written is this 
story of a running fight between railroad builders 
and man-eating lions in Uganda. 

New edition. $1.75 net; by mail, $1.87. 



A NOTABLE BOOK OF DESCRIPTION. 

Mr. F. Marion Crawford's 
Southern Italy and Sicily 

is the fullest, most tangible, and vivid description of 
the region about Messina obtainable; among its 
many illustrations are scenes in all parts of the 
shaken district. Cloth, $2.50 net; by mail, $2.72. 



The Cyclopedia of American Agriculture 



edited by L. H. Bailey, of Cornell University, Editor of "Cyclopedia of American Horticulture," chairman of the 
Commission on Country Life, is completed by the issue of the fourth volume, soon to appear. 

I. Farms, Climates, Soils, etc. III. Farm Animals, Farm Products 

II. Farm Crops (individually in detail) IV. The Farm and the Community 

Com,plete in four kto volumes, the set $20 in cloth, half morocco $32. 



PUBLISHED 
BY 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 



64-66 Fifth Ave., 
NEW YORK 



THE DIAL 

a Snnt*i^nt!)Ig Sournal of ^iterarg Criticigm, ©igcusgion, antj Inf0tmatton. 



THE DIAL (founded in 1880) is published on, the 1st arid 16th oj 
each month. Tebms of Subsceiption, 82. a year in advance, postage 
prepaid in the United States, and Mexico; Foreign and Canadian 
postage 50 cents per year extra. Bemittances should be by check, or 
by express or postal order, payable to THE DIAL COMPANY. 
Unless otherwise ordered, subscriptions will begin with the current 
number. When no direct request to discontinue at expiration of sub- 
scription is received, it is assumed that a continuance of the subscription 
is desired. Advektisino Rates furnished on application. All com- 
munications should be addressed to 

THE DIAL, Fine Arts Building, Chicago. 

Entered as Second-Class Matter October 8, 1892, at the Post 0£Bce 
at Chicago, Illinois, under Act of March 3, 1879. 

No. 543. FEBRUARY 1, 1909. Vol. XLVL 

Contents. 

PAGE 

A LIBRARY SUGGESTION 69 

GLEANINGS FROM THE LIBRARY PRESS OF 

1908. Aksel G. S. Josephson 71 

AMERICAN LIBRARIES THROUGH AN ENG- 
LISH MONOCLE 73 

CASUAL COMMENT 74 

The classifying instinct. — The Public Library of 
the District of Columbia. - — The new head of Har- 
vard. — The joys of an amateur librarian. — The 
new historian of Rome. — Poetry and business. — 
Robert Burton's bequest of books. — The hunger 
for books in the country. — A memorial to Lincoln. 
— Europe's ignorance of America. 

COMMUNICATIONS 76 

" Ido " and " Pigeon English." O. H. Mayer. 
Esperanto and " Ido." Eugene F. McPike. 

THE LADY OF HOLLAND HOUSE. Anna 

Benneson McMahan 77 

MOLIERE IN ENGLISH VERSE. H. C. Chatfield- 

Taylor 78 

THE IRELAND OF TO-DAY. Ellen FitzGerald . 80 
CONCLUSION OF THE SCHURZ REMINIS- 
CENCES. W. H. Johnson 82 

RECENT FICTION. William Morton Payne ... 84 
Mallock's An Immortal Soul. — OUivant's The 
Gentleman. — Wells's The War in the Air. — Par- 
tridge's The Distributors. — Masefield's Captain 
Margaret. — Watson's The Devil's Pulpit. — Mrs. 
Thurston's The Fly on the Wheel. — "Dolf 
Wyllarde's " Rose-White Youth. — Miss Mon- 
tague's In Calvert's Valley. — Miss Murfree's The 
Fair Mississippian. — Payson's Barry Gordon. — 
Cable's Kincaid's Battery. 

BRIEFS ON NEW BOOKS 87 

Evidences of life on the red planet. — Ian Maclaren 
portrayed by a fellow Scotsman. — President Eliot 
on University administration. — The latest hero of 
the nations. — The origin and growth of American 
polity. — A reader's vade-mecum. — Sixteenth cen- 
tury French portraits. — A Shelley translation from 
Plato. 

NOTES 90 

TOPICS IN LEADING PERIODICALS .... 91 

LIST OF NEW BOOKS 91 



A LIBRAE Y SUGGESTION. 



The chief factor in recent library develop- 
ment, viewed from the standpoint of material 
equipment and the extension of facilities for 
reading, is undoubtedly that provided by the 
unexampled benefactions of Mr. Carnegie. Like 
all good works, this particularly good work has 
been met in some quarters with grudging accept- 
ance and ill-natured criticism, but its positive 
beneficence is not to be minimized merely be- 
cause some captious people think the money 
might have been put to better uses, or because 
some penurious communities resent the condi- 
tion of maintenance wisely attached to Mr. 
Carnegie's gift of library buildings. Those who 
take exception to the largess thus generously 
bestowed usually do so upon one or the other of 
the above grounds, and their fault-finding, while 
it may properly take the form of an occasional 
pleasant jest, should excite only indignation 
when it is put forward in the form of serious 
reproof. 

The objection of the sentimentalist, to whom 
any benefaction that is not a charity is rela- 
tively ill-advised, may be the product of a warm 
heart but is not the conclusion of a clear intelli- 
gence. The fundamental principle of all wisely- 
directed effort to improve social conditions and 
provide real benefits to mankind is that consid- 
eration for the future is more important than 
concern for the present. Charities we must 
have, and do have in abundance ; most people, 
in fact, who conjoin wealth with philanthropic 
purpose, first turn their thoughts toward soup- 
kitchens and hospitals and asylums. The 
appeal of suffering humanity is so urgent that 
comparatively few philanthropists can resist it, 
and devote their gifts to the removal of the 
underlying causes of present misery. With this 
emotional bias so widely prevalent, charity is 
at all times sure of getting even a larger share 
than it should of the total of wealth that is avail- 
able for the amelioration of the conditions of 
existence. It takes both foresight and resolu- 
tion to apply to the processes of gradual regen- 
eration the means whereby many immediate 
needs might be speedily relieved. And yet 
nothing is more certain than the fact that direct 



70 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 1, 



charity accomplishes little for the future, and 
that it tends to magnify the very evils which it 
would diminish. On the other hand, increased 
provision for education (and the library is second 
in importance only to the school as a means of 
education) is a sure means of helping the com- 
ing generation to a better footing than the 
present generation occupies, and the judgment 
that makes it is of all judgments the best- 
considered. 

Glancing at the other of the two chief criti- 
cisms of Mr. Carnegie's library gifts, it is easy 
to see that, just as no individual likes to have 
his philanthropies forced, there are sure to be 
many communities that will receive grudgingly 
a gift to which is attached the condition of a 
continuing contribution oh their own part. The 
community that adopts the fara da se attitude, 
and courteously declines the offered gift, may 
have our respect, but hardly the community that 
accepts it, and then grumbles about the new tax 
which it imposes. The acceptance, if made at 
all, should be made in good faith, and include 
an acceptance of the responsibility ; indeed, a 
gift that does not bring with it a responsibility 
is not likely to accomplish a useful purpose in 
any direction, philanthropic or other. Hence we 
think that Mr. Carnegie's condition is as wise as 
his primary aim of supplying the multitude with 
good reading ; and if the possession of one of his 
library buildings puts a little moral pressure 
upon the town that gets it, the pressure is of the 
right sort and in the right direction. Com- 
munities, no less than the individual members 
of which they are composed, are apt to be made 
the better by the spur of a little compulsion. 
This principle, which is the foundation of our 
political existence, always makes for stability of 
character and aim. It is always the part of 
wisdom to guard against temporary inclinations 
and the impulses of the moment. 

We did not, however, start out with the in- 
tention of making an elaborate defence of the 
Carnegie libraries, which may well give mute 
but eloquent testimony for themselves, needing 
no apologist. What we really had in mind was 
a suggestion concerning the books that go into 
them. It is, in brief, that the donor should 
supplement his gift of buildings by occasional 
gifts of books that are worthy of being placed 
in the collections, and that would otherwise not 
be likely to be added to many of them. The 
purpose of such gifts should be not so much 
that of swelling the ranks on the shelves as 
of encouraging authorship in certain needed 



directions. Most of the books that go into a 
library of moderate size are fairly popular pub- 
lications, or publications of recognized standing, 
that may very well be left to make their own 
way. On the other hand, there are many works 
of high character that are too narrow in their 
appeal to belong to the average public library 
on any terms. But besides the books of these 
two kinds there are others occupying a sort of 
intellectual borderland between popular writing 
and the literature of specialism, that find the 
struggle for existence difficidt, and that would 
be mightily encouraged by a plan that should 
seek them out, give them a helping hand, and 
lift them just above the margin of commercial 
possibility. Books of this kind, that have 
somehow failed to get adequate attention from 
reviewers, and yet are highly meritorious, and 
would prove their usefulness in the small library, 
exist in considerable numbers, and it would be 
a praiseworthy act to make some sort of system- 
atic provision for putting them within the reach 
of more readers than they are likely to attract 
by their own unaided merits. 

To put the case a little more concretely, let 
us assume that Mr. Carnegie has a thousand 
public libraries in full operation. Let us then 
suppose that he entrust to a committee of ex- 
perts the duty of examining the current literary 
output, and of recommending, from time to 
time, such books as are found to be notable for 
sound workmanship and educational value, but 
which, for some reason or other, do not seem 
to be getting the support which they deserve. 
Books answering to this description are all the 
time making their modest debut, finding a few 
appreciative readers, and then disappearing from 
view without reaching more than a small part 
of what should be their real public. It is acci- 
dent or caprice (to say nothing of advertising) 
that largely determines the popularity of a book. 
Of two biographies, the one sincere and pains- 
taking, the other careless and sensational, the 
latter will have the satisfactory sale. Of two 
histories, the one scholarly and the other flashy, 
the former will not be the popular favorite. Of 
two collections of essays, the one frothy and the 
other clarified, the latter will suffer neglect. 
Of two volumes of verse, the one slangy or 
sentimental, the other expressing high ideals of 
beauty and conduct, the latter will not find 
enough purchasers to cover the cost of its man- 
ufacture. Now our suggestion is that in each 
of these typical cases, and in other similar cases, 
our supposed committee should discover the 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



71 



deserving book — the literary Cinderella — 
recommend it for purchase, and that straight- 
way an order for a thousand copies, one for 
each of the thousand libraries, should go to the 
publisher. 

L-The sale of a thousand copies more or less is 
a trifling matter for the novel of the hour, but 
it is a matter of life and death for many a good 
book. Moreover, the cachet given a book by 
thus singling it out for approval would further 
advance its fortunes. " Approved by the 
Carnegie Committee " might come to mean in 
this country what " Crowned by the Academy " 
means in France ; no guaranty, perhaps, of any 
very large demand, but certainly the stamp of a 
distinction that would be highly prized. The 
system might profitably be extended to manu- 
scripts, since the sale of a thousand copies 
secured in advance, with the knowledge of 
their distribution to a thousand libraries, would 
insure the printing of almost any kind of a 
manuscript that might otherwise have to go 
begging for a publisher. The successful working 
of the plan which we have proposed woidd, of 
course, depend upon the good judgment of the 
committee entrusted with the delicate task of 
selection, and upon the authority with which it 
could appeal to the public. Probably the safest 
course that could be taken would be to place 
the whole matter in the hands of the National 
Institute of Arts and Letters, with full power 
to examine and award. 

The cost of putting this plan into effect woidd 
not be great. In comparison with Mr. Car- 
negie's huge expenditures for library buildings, 
it would be inconsiderable. Fifty thousand 
dollars a year applied to this purpose would 
enrich neither publisher nor author beyond the 
dreams of avarice, but it would provide for the 
publication or the encouragement of perhaps 
fifty volumes of good literature upon conditions 
that would at least protect the former from loss 
and cheer the heart of the latter in better than 
pecuniary fashion. It would also add fifty books 
to the shelves of every library in the Carnegie 
system ; and they would be books profitable for 
instruction and the elevation of taste. Objectors 
will doubtless urge that our suggestion is too 
artificial and academic, to which we can reply 
only by saying that we believe in the academic 
idea (despite its " forty-first chairs " and other 
miscalculations), and that the policy of encourag- 
ing good work by artificial stimuli has on the 
whole thoroughly justified itself in the annals 
of mankind. 



GLEANINGS FROM THE LIBRARY 
PRESS OF 1908* 



The most significant change in the character of 
the professional library press during the past few 
years, at least in England and America, is the par- 
ticular emphasis laid on questions of Extension, — 
how to reach the various classes of readers, how to 
give the library its proper place in the community, 
and the relegation to the background of the more 
technical questions of cataloguing and classification, 
the disappearance even of the minutiae of library 
technique, the renewed emphasis on the book itself. 
(See in this connection Mr. Koopman's articles in 
" Public Libraries ": " Lest We Forget, in the Mul- 
titude of Books, the Few Great Books.") The 
question of open access to the shelves, once vehe- 
mently discussed on both sides of the Atlantic, is 
the subject of only four papers, two American and 
two English, none of them particularly significant. 
The fiction problem, though the subject of only two 
or three papers, still attracts, and the last word has 
not yet been said ; the same is true of the problem 
of the children, which seems on the way to be rele- 
gated to its proper dimensions. Cooperation in 
cataloguing having been solved, at least in America 
and Germany, the larger question of inter-library 
loans enters the field again. The interest in for- 
eign affairs is reasonably lively in this country and 
in Germany, while England takes on the role of 
greater self-satisfaction, which is shown in the few 
cases where American conditions are incidentally 
touched upon. 

* The following survey of the main articles in two American 
library periodicals ("Library Journal " and " Public Libraries "), 
two English ( ' ' Library Association Record " and Library World " ) , 
and two German (" Zentralblatt fur Bibliothekswesen " and 
"Blatter fur Volksbibliotheken und Lesehallen"). during the 
past year brings out some interesting matters about the tenden- 
cies and activities in the library field of the three countries. 

Questions of Administration (including such questions as 
Open Shelves, Specialization, Circulation, as well as the aiih- 
iectot Buildings). L. J.: 15 — P.L.: 7 — L. A.R.: 5 — L.W.:7 — 
Z.f.B.: 5 — B.f.V.: 2 — 

Extension, Relation to readers and to public bodies, Co- 
operation with other institutions as well as with other libraries, 
work with children. L. J.: 25 — P.L.: 18 — L. A.R.: 5 — Z.f. B.: 
3 — 

Special classes of libraries (and Special Collections). L. J. : 
3 — P.L.: 2 — L.A.R.: 3 — Z.f.B.: 3— B.f.V.: 2 — 

Historical features (including Descriptions of individual 
libraries a,nd Biographical sketches). L. J.: 8 — P. L. : 2 — 
L.A.R.: 2 — L.W.: 9 — Z.f.B.: 4 — B.f.V.: 1 — 

Book selection and collecting (including Relations with the 
book trade and the Fiction question. L. J. : 8 — P. L. : 2 — 
L.A.R.: 3 — L.W.: 5— Z.f.B.: 1 — B.f.V.: 6 — 

jBoo/cs and aw^/iors (literary articles). P.L,: 3 — B.f.V.: 5 — 

Bibliography and. Cataloguing. L.J. : 6 — P. L. : 2 — L.A. R. : 
3 — L.W.: 7 — Z.f.B.: 10 — B.f.V.: 1 — 

Classification. L.J.: 2 — L.W.: 1 — B.f.V.: 1 — 

Manuscripts and paleography. L. J. : 1 (a translation) — 
Z.f.B.: 5 — 

Printing (history). Z.f.B: 3 — 

Physical aspect of the Book (paper, binding). 
L.A.R.: 3 — Z.f.B.: 2 — 

Library profession and Staff questions. 
1 — L.A.R.: 2 — L.W.: 5 — 

L.J. 



P.L.: 1 — 



L.J.: 3— P.L. 



Instruction and training. 
L.W.: 1 — B.f.V.: 2 — 

Foreign library affairs. 
Z.t.B.: 5 — B.f.V.: 1 — 



3— P.L.: 



■L.A.R.: 2- 



L. J.: 10 — P.L.: 3 — L. W. 



72 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 1, 



Turning now to the individual articles, we find, 
naturally enough, the most significant to be those 
dealing with extension of the work and influence of 
the library. Easily first in importance under this 
head is Professor L. H. Bailey's address at the 
Lake George meeting, — " Library Work for Rural 
Communities" (L. J., Oct.). Here are new prob- 
lems presented in a forceful and attractive way, and 
the work of libraries put in relation with the whole 
movement to improve rural conditions. The partic- 
ular message of Professor Bailey we find in the 
statement that while '' to a large extent the effect 
of library work is to cause persons to read for en- 
tertainment," the needs of the countryman are 
different. He is, consciously or. not, a fatalist. " His 
work is largely in the presence of the elemental 
forces of nature." This develops in him either " a 
complacent and joyful resignation" or "a species 
of rebellion which leads to a hopeless and pes- 
simistic outlook on life." " The countryman," 
therefore, " needs to read for courage." It is sig- 
nificant that the rural problem has been touched in 
England also, in the address before the Library 
Association at Brighton by its President, Mr. C. 
Thomas-Stanford (L. A. R., Sept.). To make 
country life attractive to men and women " emanci- 
pated by education from the ascriptio glehce which 
was the lot of their fathers," is one of the great 
problems of the day, and one way to meet it is to 
increase among them the opportunities for reading. 

A further extension of the possibilities for use- 
fulness of libraries has been effected in England 
through the cooperation of the Library Association 
with the National Home Reading Union, an organ- 
ization of somewhat the same character as the 
Chautauqua Reading Circles. The October " Li- 
brary Association Record " contains a statement of 
the new developments of the Union, including the 
agreement between it and the Library Association. 
A feature of this cooperation is the publication of 
a " Readers' Review " issued by the two bodies, 
through which the readers in public libraries receive 
guidance in the choice of books and subjects for 
reading. 

Closely related to these phases of library extension 
are the questions of how to select the most suitable 
books for the public library and how to arrange 
them. The classification of fiction is not a new 
matter in this country, or in England ; but it would 
seem that the article by Professor C. Lausberg of 
Dtlsseldorf, on " Die Gliederimg der schOngeistigen 
Literatur "* (B. f. V. July- Aug. and Sept.-Oct.), is 
the first serious discussion of the subject in the 
German professional press. The librarian of the 
Dtlsseldorf Volksbibliothek has convictions of his 
own on the subject, and his articles are directed 
against adverse criticisms of the system used in the 
library of which he has charge. He claims that in 
a popular library the borrowers are looking chiefly 

• Issued in separate form by O. Harrassowitz in Leipzig 
together with another article: " Allerlei Qedanken viber das 
Bibliothekswesen." 



for recreative reading, and the books should be 
arranged on the shelves so as to help them to select 
that which suits their taste. In fiction the reader 
is led in his choice " by temperament rather than 
by intellect. The tastes are as a rule permanent." 
And the author goes on to cite several instances 
of highly cultivated men and women, by no means 
adverse to " heavy " reading even outside of their 
professional work, but who, when choosing books 
for recreation, select writers of a decidedly light 
character. " And if a poor seamstress or a down- 
trodden saleswoman asks for books of the Heimburg 
and Schobert kind for her lonely, tired evenings, let 
her have them to the end of her days." " I have 
never," he says, "thought much of the education of 
readers to ' higher things.' " Reviews of books 
suitable for popular reading have always been a 
special feature of '' Blatter fttr Volksbibliotheken." 
Each issue contains a number of notices of current 
books, both fiction and others, short and to the point, 
enabling one to see at a glance the character and 
point of view of each. Besides this regular depart- 
ment, most issues contain special articles about 
well-known writers, estimating especially their work, 
as " Volksschriftsteller." Among the writers dis- 
cussed during the past year we find Gottfried Keller, 
Heinrich Steinhausen, and Karl Emil Franzos. 

Mr. Ernest E. Savage, in a paper read at a 
monthly meeting of the Library Association, dis- 
cusses " Some Difficulties in the Selection of Scien- 
tific and Technical Books " (L. A. R., Ap.). He 
deprecates the lack of competent guides to the best 
books. He seems rather too much given to the cult 
of the books "hot from the press," and presents 
incidentally his compliments to the " A. L. A. Book- 
List," which he finds to contain chiefly "evaluative 
gush." Criticism of American methods is found in 
another paper in the " Library Association Record " 
for June, by Mr. James D. Stewart, on " The Cult 
of the Child and Common Sense." Mr. Stewart 
opposes the introduction of exaggerated work with 
children from American to British libraries ; the 
story hour especially he thinks should be avoided. 
" The library is primarily for the adult and second- 
arily for the juvenile, and if this is kept in mind the 
efficiency of the institution will gain, and much money 
and energy will be saved." Mr. Stewart quotes with 
approval from the report of the Examining Committee 
of the Boston Public Library, which, he says, " pos- 
sesses one of the most sanely managed children's 
departments." It is interesting to find, in the April 
" Library Journal," a paper by a former chairman ©f 
the subcommittee on branches of the Boston com- 
mittee, Miss Caroline Matthews, on " The Growing 
Tendency to Over-Emphasize the Children's Side," 
in which the writer says: "Nothing has astonished 
me more than this new development in library prac- 
tice — the placing of the child in importance before 
the adult." As chairman of the subcommittee on 
branches. Miss Matthews has especial opportunity to 
study the children's rooms and the work with children 
generally. She sums the matter up in this sentence : 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



73 



'* I grew to have a horror of children's rooms — as 
distinct from children's departments. Intellectually, 
physically, morally, I believe them harmful. Neither 
can I see their necessity." 

If tendencies are apparent to relegate the work 
with children to a less prominent place, the needs 
of the workingmen and the industrial classes in 
general are receiving more attention. It is evi- 
denced, however, by the articles on this subject that 
appeared in the March " Public Libraries," that 
American librarians here stand before a problem 
that is new to many, and one which they do not 
quite understand. Mr. Sam Walter Foss hits the 
nail on the head when he says that " we are not 
keeping step in this country to the new industrial 
music as are some of the European nations." His 
suggestion that the library " mix a little masculinity 
in its over-feminized collections " is to the point, and 
might be made to cover methods and surroundings 
as well. 

While the journals whose contents have hitherto 
passed in review discuss mainly the questions of 
everyday life in public libraries, the case is different 
with " Zentralblatt fUr Bibliothekswesen." This 
journal caters to the workers in the large libraries, 
or at least to those of scholarly character. The 
problems under discussion are therefore to some 
extent, though not altogether, different. The ques- 
tion of local collections, for instance, which was 
presented by Dr. Keysser of Cologne at last year's 
meeting of the German librarians, is of interest to 
the workers in any public library, and Dr. Keysser's 
paper should be read with profit by them. He is 
particularly competent to speak on the matter, as 
the City Library of Cologne not only makes par- 
ticular effort to coUcict books of local character, but 
is one of a group of libraries along the middle course 
of the Rhine which have joined together for the 
collecting of printed matter relating to their common 
district. Besides the proceedings at the annual 
conference of German librarians, this journal con- 
tains the papers read at the library section of the 
eighth International Historical Congress in Berlin. 
The general subject for deliberation at the section 
was Cooperation, — union catalogues, inter-library 
loans, and the like. Dr. R. Fick, the head of the 
Bureau of Information of the Prussian Union Cat- 
alogue, Dr. F. Eichler in Graz, and Dr. H. Escher 
in Zurich, reported, respectively, on the work in 
Prussia, Austria, and Switzerland. Dr. Aksel 
Andersson of Upsala presented, after a survey of 
the present situation in matters of inter-library 
loans, a resolution, which was adopted by the section 
for presentation to the International Association of 
Academies, which organization has lent its powerful 
aid to the development of direct relations between 
the libraries of Europe. The resolution expressed 
the appreciation of the section for the efforts of the 
Association, and presented some desiderata tending 
to a further simplification of the direct lending of 
books from library to library. The question of 
inter-library loans, which for some time has been 



dormant in this country, was revived by Mr. W. C. 
Lane in his address at the dedication of the new 
library building of Oberlin College, the concluding 
portion of which was printed in the December 
" Library Journal " under the title : " A Central 
Bureau of Information and Loan Collection for 
College Libraries." It is a carefully worked out 
plan for the organization of a central office or agency 
for loans between libraries, which gradually should 
collect a library of such works, chiefly long sets of 
serials and other expensive works, as are not avail- 
able for loan through other libraries. 

Aksel G. S. Josephson. 



AMERICAN LIBRARIES THROUGH AN 
ENGLISH MONOCLE. 



English and American library efficiency is a sub- 
ject for good-tempered and helpful, and also for 
acrimonious and futile, debate. By a well-known 
weakness of human nature, a weakness rather comi- 
cal than tragic, our own virtues loom large, and our 
neighbor's vices even larger. The January number 
of "The Library World" (London) opens with a 
carefully studied and highly readable editorial com- 
parison of " European and American Libraries," 
dealing especially with libraries in England and the 
United States. The recognized fact that library 
workers are better paid in this country than abroad 
is made much of to demonstrate the greater cost of 
per capita service here. It is true that, like all new 
countries, America has incurred the charge of lavish- 
ness and waste, and our library economy may not be 
the strictest economy in one sense of the word. We 
may, too, fail to adopt some of our English cousins' 
library methods and reforms that are richly deserv- 
ing of adoption. But are we quite so blind and 
foolish, so arrogant and ignorant, as this English 
editor seems to think ? Possibly he has indulged the 
literary artist's fondness for rhetorical effect, while 
cherishing none but the most cordial and friendly and 
admiring sentiments toward us. At any rate, here 
are a few of his most picturesque utterances : " As a 
matter of fact, what ails the average American library 
invalid is simply indigestion, caused by lack of active 
employment, and having emoluments large enough to 
enable him (her more often) to eat pumpkin pie, 
clams, baked beans and canvas-back duck all the year 
roimd ! The enormous sums frittered away in Amer- 
ica on unproductive and useless library ' activities ' 
have no parallel in Europe, where common-sense 
takes the place of hysteria in such matters, for 
example, as the treatment of children. . . . The 
mingled bounce and twaddle which garnish the aver- 
age American library report prove somewhat comical 
reading to those who really know what library 
conditions are in various parts of the world. . . . 
Thus we may have the report of the ' superintendent 
of the page's brass buttons '; the statement of the 
marble polisher ; the special report of the torn leaf 



74 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 1, 



department ; the statistical abstract of the steno- 
graphic department, and all the empty and costly 
parade which distinguishes these preposterous docu- 
ments. ... In library matters American ideals are 
decidedly stale. Her methods were more or less 
standardized between 1878 and 1888, and since then 
not an atom of progress has been made save in the 
piling up of immense revenues and the establishment 
of unnecessary staffs which have to attempt to justify 
their existence by launching out into equally need- 
less and futile ' missionary ' enterprises." Not an 
atom of progress ! Far less, then, a molecule ; and 
some of us thought we had crept forward a good inch, 
if not half a foot. The article from which the fore- 
going excerpts are taken honors The Dial, among 
other American journals, with special mention ; but 
the charge that certain statements of ours " are not 
only written with a most lofty sense of American 
superiority, but are manifestly based on ignorance 
of library conditions in Europe," seems a little harsh. 
It is true that in a recent issue we quoted Professor 
Mahaffy *s commendation of our " finely systematized 
and organized libraries "; but he is a Briton, and we 
were too proud of his good opinion to keep silent. 
And we have occasionally alluded to a certain dis- 
inclination to cut loose from red tape as noted in 
some of the great royal or imperial libraries of 
Europe. On the other hand, we not long ago (see 
vol. 42, p. 214) commented adversely on our own 
libraries' inferior efficiency as compared with a 
certain German public library, and were called to 
account for it in this country ; and we also (see 
vol. 43, p. 198) took pleasure in chronicling the 
convention of British librarians at Glasgow, with 
approving comment on the unselfish devotion of 
British library workers, and regretful note of their 
inadequate remuneration. We were not consciously 
writing in a spirit of loftiness, condescension, or 
ignorance ; but who can understand his errors ? We 
are glad to be cleansed of some of our secret faults. 



CASUAL COMMENT. 



The classifying instinct is in some degree present 
in all of us. We feel that if we can only get the heter- 
ogeneous and confusing objects and facts and events of 
this bewildering world divided into classes and sub- 
classes, all neatly labelled and pigeon-holed, they will 
give us no further trouble. To systematize the uni- 
verse is to explain it, we are tempted to believe. This 
mama for classification, for making everything fit into 
a catalogue (preferably decimal in its scheme of divi- 
sion) , is very naturally, and not altogether improperly, 
encouraged in the training of librarians. "It has for 
so long been supposed," writes Director Wyer of the 
New York State Library, in his current Report, " that 
cataloguing is the backbone of effective library admin- 
istration, that this subject always looms far larger than 
any other in the program of either a summer or a winter 
school. In the former case, however, the excessive 
time given to cataloguing seems to be at the expense of 
the more inspirational features of the work, and the 



faculty is seriously considering either the omission of 
all cataloguing from the general course in 1909 and 
offering it as a special elective course covering about 
four weeks, or a considerable reduction in the time and 
work given to the subject. So many of those who come 
to a summer session are from libraries too small to find 
use for any catalogue at all, or at least too small for 
any but the briefest author and title list, or they fill 
positions which never have demanded and probably 
never will permit any or much experience in catalogu- 
ing. The omission of this subject from the required 
work of the summer session will give a very welcome 
increase of leisure time which may be devoted with 
profit to book selection, personal work with readers, the 
actual study of the inside of the books themselves, and 
the larger phases of library administration which are 
related to the community which it serves." The pro- 
posed change is commendable. Almost any course of 
mental training might profit the would-be librarian (so 
miscellaneous will be the demands made on his intelli- 
gence) as long as it does not nourish in him (and in 
her) the notion that mankind in general and library- 
users in particular are machines, and that the whole 
world, especially the library world, is wound up once 
for all and runs like clock-work. 

The Public Library of the District of Columbia 
is so much younger, so much smaller, and so much less 
important in every way than the Library of Congress in 
the same city, that few even of those interested in such 
things are fully aware how large and excellent a library 
it really is. The Librarian's Tenth Annual Report gives 
the last year's circulation as over half a million, and tells 
in detail what is being done and being planned to increase 
still further the library's usefulness. A piatter of general 
interest is touched upon in the following: " It is gratify- 
ing to be able to report that the percentage of fiction 
circulated has been fvu-ther reduced. In 1903-4, when 
no books except fiction were on open shelves for direct 
access, fiction formed nearly 84 per cent of the total 
circulation. Gradually during the last four years more 
and more books from non-fiction classes have been put 
on open shelves, and more and more help and guidance 
has been given to readers requiring assistance, with the 
result that the fiction percentage has been reduced to 
65. The new Useful Arts and Science room is an open- 
shelf room, where those classes are directly accessible 
to readers. ... In spite of too frequent thefts from 
open shelves, the value of putting the people in direct 
contact with the books, instead of forcing their approach 
through a card catalogue, is so well attested by the grad- 
ually falling fiction percentage as to justify the recom- 
mendation still further to extend open-shelf facilities 
imtil it is possible to have the cream of all classes of the 
library directly accessible to readers." A life-like por- 
trait of the late A. R. Spofford, who served for eleven 
years on the library's board of trustees, and views, 
exterior and interior, of the handsome library building 
adorn this variously-informing Report, which of course 
bears the imprint of the Government Printing Office. 

The new head of Harvard, chosen to succeed 
President Eliot next May, is a man already favorably 
known in education, as well as in letters and in law. 
Professor Abbott Lawrence Lowell is the son of 
Augustus Lowell, cotton manufacturer, shrewd Boston 
business man, and honored founder of the Lowell 
Institute. Born December 13, 1856, Professor Lowell 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



76 



has hardly more than begun his sixth decade, but has 
had ample opportunity to display his initiative and force 
as an educator, both in a term of service on the Boston 
school board and as Eaton Professor of the Science of 
Government at Harvard. With a successful law prac- 
tice behind him, and known as the author of a two- 
volume work on governments and parties in continental 
Europe, he accepted a call from his alma mater twelve 
years ago and began there his lectures on government 
which have become so popular with his large classes of 
students. His success as lecturer and teacher has been 
attributed " not only to his thorough grasp of the sub- 
ject and to his complete confidence in it as a field of 
study, but to his unfailing self-control in the class-room, 
his mastery of the art of speaking fluently yet with 
dignity ; above all, perhaps, to the wealth of apt illustra- 
tion and illustrative anecdote which he has at ready 
command." His reputation as a scholar and writer in 
his chosen field has lately been increased by the publi- 
cation of still another learned and illuminative work, 
" The Government of England," a book worthy to stand 
beside Mr. Bryce's " American Commonwealth " as a 
foreigner's lucid exposition of a great country's polity 
in theory and practice. Professor Lowell's administra- 
tive ability has conspicuously attested itself in these 
active and fruitful years at Cambridge, so that there is 
every reason to feel confidence in his wise and progres- 
sive management of the great institution committed to 
his chai'ge. ... 

The joys of an amateur librarian are enlarged 
upon by a writer in the December " Bulletin of the 
Vermont Library Commission." She chooses to call 
herself an amateur, but is one only in the best sense of 
the word, — an enthusiastic devotee of her calling. 
Before being drawn into the work, suddenly and com- 
pellingly, she confesses herself to have been " like many 
others on the outside who felt that library work was 
simple, was work in a straight line, more or less me- 
chanical, and just with a daily routine to meet." But 
she soon, and to her increasing delight, discovered her 
mistake. " There is," she declares, " no limit for orig- 
inality and adaptation of well-known library contrivances 
and suggestions, and the outlook is so broad and the 
road branches into so many paths that it cannot fail to 
be of vital interest to one engaged in it." In recoimt- 
ing some of her enjoyable experiences she says : " Great 
pleasure comes with choosing new books, conferring 
with the trustees, ordering and receiving them [i. e., the 
books, not the trustees]. In a large library where new 
books are without novelty, though of great interest in 
themselves, this joy is lost, and I am sorrj' for the peo- 
ple who cannot have it, and thankful that my lot was in 
a bypath." Only a desire for larger experience and for 
the training that comes with working under veteran 
librarians induced the writer to exchange her happy 
lot for what finally proved to be a different sort of 
employment in a great city; but she writes : "My in- 
terest in library work is very vital, and the large libra- 
ries mean more, the small ones mean more, every 
bookstore means more, and every working g^irl means 
more than they would if I had never had my place 
among them." Well for her, perhaps, that the ama- 
teur spirit did not have time to become transformed 
into the professional. When the amateur's zest has 
departed from one's calhng, it is time to step out and 
look around for another sphere of usefulness. When 
we have thoroughly learned a trade, that is sometimes 
the psychological moment for giving it up. 



The new historian of Rome, Signor Guglielmo 
Ferrero, who has made so favorable an impression as 
lecturer and scholar in his visit to this country, and 
whose history of " The Greatness and Decline of Rome " 
is received with such approval, is a comparatively young 
man. Born near Naples in 1871, the son of a Pied- 
montese railway engineer, he studied law at Pisa and 
belles-lettres at Bologna, where he received his academic 
degree. He early began his travels and entered upon 
those studies of foreign countries and foreign manners 
that bore fruit in his " Young Europe," a collection of 
observations made in Germany, Russia, England, and 
Scandinavia. The book was immediately successful 
and called forth many solicitations from Italian and 
foreign periodicals for contributions from its author's 
pen. A leading Milan jottmal engaged him to write a 
weekly article, and the Lombard Peace Society invited 
him to deliver a course of lectures on militarism, which 
were widely discussed. It was in 1902 that the first 
volume of his great work now in course of publication 
appeared. In person our distinguished visitor is tall 
and thin and ascetic, but with an imperious bearing that 
marks him as not exactly the midnight-oil-burning 
recluse which his depth of learning may have led us to 
expect. With the best years of his life still ahead of 
him, Signor Ferrero will disappoint us if he does not go 
far before he finishes. ... 

Poetry and business mix about as well as oil and 
vinegar. Nevertheless there is here and there a busi- 
ness man who is fond of poetry, and, still more rarely, 
there may be found one who makes poetry of his busi- 
ness, which is a very different thing from making a 
business of poetry. The Marblehead seedsman whose 
annual catalogue we have already twice noticed with 
approval again greets his seed-planting, vegetable- 
raising, and flower-cultivating patrons with a yearly 
schedule of good things in embryonic plant-life, — that 
is, with his annual " Vegetable and Flower Seed Cata- 
logue, Free for All." It is a most welcome and cheer- 
ing reminder of the approach of spring, or rather of 
summer, with its pictures of plethoric potatoes and 
pumpkins, of bursting pea-pods and sleek-skinned to- 
matoes, of daintily-fringed carnations and thickly- 
clustering verbenas. But best of all is the retiring 
senior partner's " Word to Old Friends," with its con- 
cluding poem entitled "At Eighty-One." Its four 
stanzas are all good, especially the final one: 
" Happy the life that bears upon its wings 
All hope and joy, yet aims at higher things ; 
Takes from each passing hour its priceless share, 
And scatter's Love's rich blessings everywhere." 
To have preserved through the wear and tear of busi- 
ness, the spirit of this poem up to the age of four-score 
and more, and to have breathed something of that 
spirit even into one's business, is no small achievement 
to look back upon. ... 

Robert Burton's bequest of books to Christ 
Church, Oxford, is now, after two hundred and sixty- 
nine years, duly catalogued and arranged. The author 
of " The Anatomy of Melancholy," — now not exactly 
a " best seller," but named by Dr. Johnson as the only 
book that ever took him out of bed two hours before his 
usual time, — studied both at Brazenose College and at 
Christ Church, but it was at the latter that he may be 
said to have lived and died, holding his ecclesiastical 
appointments by proxy. To Christ Church and to the 
Bodleian Library he left his books — such as they did 
not already possess; and we infer that the college 



76 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 1, 



received the larger share. Burton, too, as we read, was 
for a time librarian at Christ Church, which strengthened 
his interest in its library. English officials are admit- 
tedly slower than our own, and their library methods 
are more deliberate. Nevertheless two centuries and a 
half seems a long time to take for cataloguing a small 
collection of books; but if they comprise all the books 
quoted from in the " Anatomy," the collection cannot be 
so very small, after all. There is a rumor, we believe, 
of a legacy or purchase of books from President John 
Adams that has been slumbering uncatalogued, and so 
practically non-existent, in the Boston Public Library 
for half a century, more or less. At the end of another 
two centuries perhaps it, too, will be available for use 
• ■ • 

The hunger for books in the country, where 
time hangs heavy and people go mad from pure ennui, 
is evinced by the reported circulation of public library 
books in fifty-eight places of less than 500 population 
each, in New York State. With an average population 
of 290 and an average book-supply of 48 volumes per 
capita, there was an average circulation of 6.5 volumes 
to each inhabitant. To equal this creditable record, such 
representative city libraries as those of Utica and of New 
York would have to increase their present circulation two 
and one-half times. Their per capita supply of books, 
too, falls very far short of forty-eight. These figures 
are cited by the Maryland State Library Commission 
in its Report for 1908, the sixth year of its existence. 
Maryland is still a very poor State in the matter of free 
libraries, and the results attained in the far larger and 
richer commonwealth, on which it may well cast eyes of 
envy, will not soon be achieved among its more scatter- 
ing and less opulent population. But the Commission 
appears to be putting forth earnest efforts toward so 
desirable an end. ... 

A MEMORIAL TO LINCOLN, which will have educative 
influence, has been proposed by the Lincoln Educational 
League, an incorporated body with headquarters in 
New York. Funds have been or are being raised for 
the purpose of placing in the schoolhouses of the coun- 
try bronze tablets bearing as inscription the complete 
text of Lincoln's Gettysburg address, that brief but 
almost perfect example of noble elegiac prose. Read 
and pondered by the school-going youth of the land, 
what might it not, by its daily though unobtrusive pres- 
ence before the children's eyes, effect in the way of 
mental and spiritual uplift? Besides its noble thought, 
it would set a standard of concise and dignified expres- 
sion, and would probably be of more value to the pupil, 
first and last, than the irksome writing of a hundred 
themes or compositions. A more worthy method of 
marking this centennial year of one of the world's 
greatest men could hardly be devised. 

Europe's ignorance of America has more than 
once contributed to the gaiety of at least one nation — 
namely, our own. A German lady that we know of 
took occasion to comment on the causes of our Civil 
War by remarking: "Well, how could you expect the 
North and South not to disagree, with nothing to con- 
nect them but a narrow isthmus? " And now we find 
a London weekly review printing a notice of Miss Mary 
Johnston's " Lewis Rand " in which the reviewer sums 
up his impression of the hero as "a kind of South 
American Bonaparte." How many more intelligent 
persons are there across the Atlantic, we wonder, who 
conceive of Virginia, and what we in general call " the 
South," as situated in South America? 



COMMUNICA TIONS. 



"IDO" AND "PIGEON ENGLISH." 
(To the Editor of The Dial.) 

In suggesting, in a recent issue of your journal, that 
the international language-makers turn their attention 
to " Pigeon English," you overlook the fact that an 
international language should serve not merely for the 
primitive needs of travellers, but also for scientific inter- 
communications between the nations of western civiliza- 
tion. These nations have in the space of two thousand 
years developed a common international vocabulary, 
based in the main on Latin, and to some extent on Greek. 
Even German and Russian possess this Romance vocab- 
ulary; but how much of it is to be found in the Saxon- 
Chinese jargon on which you wish to turn us loose ? A 
Teutonic world-language, such as Mr. Molee proposes, 
is impossible, for similar reasons. An international 
language must be something more than inter-Teutonic. 
Moreover, the idea of having a union tongue between 
English, German, Dutch, and Scandinavian speakers, to 
supplant their respective native idioms, is the direct 
opposite of the desire to have an auxiliary tongue, the 
second for all nations. 

Only the systems that are based on international roots 
fulfil this condition; and among them Ido, the simplified 
Esperanto, ranks by far the highest in regularity, sim- 
plicity, logic, exactness, flexibility, and euphony. No 
arguments of a personal character, such as those offered 
by a correspondent in one of your recent numbers, will 
prevent this fact from becoming more generally recog- 
nized, as Ido becomes better known. The fittest must 
survive. q. H. Mayer. 

Chicago, January 20, 1909. 



ESPERANTO AND "IDO." 
(To the Editor of The Dial.) 

In The Dial for Dec. 16, some remarks were made 
by Mr. Julian Park, against the already consummated 
reform of Esperanto by the system called " Ido." 
Exactly why Mr. Park should wish to discourage 
progress in that direction is not clear. He takes oc- 
casion to say that a previous note by me was neither 
consistent nor convincing. I beg leave to return the 
compliment, for Mr. Park himself admits that " Ido " 
has taken all that is good in Esperanto. Therefore, — 
inferentially and truly, — the old Esperanto contains 
much that is bad, which, of course, does not appear in 
" Ido." The latter is the first and only international 
language coming to us with the stamp of scholarship. 
It is not necessary to ascribe its authorship to the 
Marquis de Beauf rout, who is not " a mere plagiarist," 
as alleged by Mr. Park. I would like to ask any well- 
informed Esperantist where his " kara lingvo " would be 
to-day, were it not for the valuable propaganda work 
performed for it, in France, during many years, by that 
same Marquis de Beaufront, who, however, is well able 
to defend himself. 

The quickest and best way to end the whole discus- 
sion is to leave the final choice of an international lan- 
guage in the hands of the public, where, indeed, it must 
eventually rest. Eugene F. McPike. 

Chicago, January 22, 1909. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



77 



t H«fe %aokn. 



The liADY OP Holland House.* 

Beautiful, clever, imperious, — these are the 
adjectives repeatedly applied by her contem- 
poraries to the hostess of Holland House, who 
for forty years presided there over a coterie of 
the brightest and most distinguished men of her 
time. The glimpses we have had of this en- 
gaging personality through the pages of Moore, 
Rogers, and Macaiday lead to high expectation 
when we are offered the opportunity of hearing 
the lady herself speak through the pages of her 
own Journal. 

We know what the guests thought of her — 
this third Lady Holland — in her best moods 
and in her worst, when everything was to her 
mind or when her dinner-party went badly — 
as dinner-parties will at times, even with great 
ladies. We have been charmed with Macaulay's 
picture of that wonderful drawing-room, in all 
its stately grandeur, where " the last debate was 
discussed in one corner and the last comedy of 
Scribe in another ; while Wilkie gazed with 
modest admiration on Sir Joshua's Baretti ; 
while Mackintosh turned over Thomas Aquinas 
to verify a quotation ; while Talleyrand related 
his conversations with Barras at the Luxem- 
bourg, or his ride with Lannes over the field of 
Austerlitz." What revelations, then, may we 
not expect when we are invited to another and 
more confidential view? Shall we not learn 
what the hostess thought of her guests, as well 
as what the guests thought of the hostess ? Shall 
we not gain more minute details of this brilliant 
circle where every art and science was hospit- 
ably entertained and given a hearing ? 

But alas! the Journal ends in 1811, thirty 
years before the time of which Macaulay wrote ; 
and consequently not one of the poets, essayists, 
or wits of his time whose portraits we had hoped 
to behold is even mentioned in its pages. This 
is the first great disappointment of the book. 

The second great disappointment is like unto 
the first, though not of equal extent. In these 
two volumes of about three hundred pages each, 
the political is almost as lacking as the literary 
interest. We do indeed find many allusions to 
men and events during the years when Holland 
House was the rallying place for the Whig 
rebels, but all in so rambling and indefinite a 
manner that the Journ al cannot be said to throw 

•The Journal of Elizabeth Lady Holland (1791-1811). 
Edited by the Earl of llchester. In two volumes. Illustrated. 
New York : Longmans, Green, & Co. 



much light upon this stirring time. The lady 
of the manor is said to have prided herself on 
her command of the English language ; but her 
Journal, certainly, bears little evidence of pic- 
turesqueness of phrase or even clearness of 
statement. Moreover, it requires about half 
of Volume I. to reach the date (1797) when 
the writer becomes Lady Holland. When the 
record begins she is Lady Webster, and although 
only twenty years old has been already married 
five years to a man more than twice her age and 
utterly uncongenial in every way. It is a pa- 
thetic story, based on a perfunctory marriage 
arranged by parents, ending in desertion on the 
wife's part and divorce sought and obtained on 
the husband's. At the age of twenty-two, Lady 
Webster writes : 

" This fatal day seven years gave me, in the bloom 
and innocence of fifteen, to the power of a being who 
has made me execrate my life since it has belonged to 
him. Despair often prompts me to a remedy within 
my reach. . . . Nature is assisted to relieve us in our 
diseases — why not terminate those of the mind ? My 
mind is worked up to a state of savage exaltation, and 
impels me to act with fury that proceeds more from 
passion and deep despair than I can in calmer moments 
justify. Oftentimes in the gloom of midnight I feel a 
desire to curtail my grief, and but for an unaccountable 
shudder that creeps over me, ere this the deed of rash- 
ness would be executed." 

" My tormentor " is her usual form of allusion 
to the man whose name she bore ; and a most 
fitting one it is, judging from the sacrifices 
she continually made to keep him in passable 
humor. In travelling, if but one bed is to be 
had, the husband makes himself comfortable in 
that, while the wife sleeps on the floor and the 
maid in the carriage outside. Settling in a 
palace at Florence where English habits have 
not been provided for, and there are but three 
rooms with fireplaces, she goes without, while 
" my tormentor has one, the nursery and sitting 
room the others." 

Most of the eleven years of the married life 
of this ill-assorted pair was spent abroad, in 
France and Italy. Naturally, the lady writes 
a good deal about the places she visits, the 
works of art she sees, etc. But her descriptions 
and reflections are not more valuable or signifi- 
cant than the opinions of the average young 
woman in the early twenties, and it seems a pity 
and something of an injustice to publish them in 
this day of eyes trained for art and familiar with 
foreign lands by much travel. Nevertheless, our 
sympathies are all with the young woman when, 
at the age of twenty-six, a divorce is granted, 
with the custody of her children denied. 

But the misery of this first experience of 



78 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 1, 



marriage seems to have been more than com- 
pensated by the happiness of the second, when 
she became the wife of Henry Richard, third 
Earl of Holland. If anything more were needed 
to add to our admiration of this delightful gen- 
tleman and distinguished statesman, we should 
have it here, in the adoring wife's Journal. 
" Imperious " as she is said to have been, espe- 
cially in her later years, there are few signs 
of it in her Journal, and never in her do- 
mestic relations. She seems to have been a 
tender mother to the ten children of her two 
marriages. 

Possibly it is unfair, when offered a peep at a 
lady's Journal a century after it is written, to 
complain because it fails to fill certain gaps 
which, reasonably or unreasonably, the modem 
reader would like to see filled. And although 
lacking indeed in the ways we have suggested, — 
being too diffuse at the beginning and too cur- 
tailed at the end, — there is now and then a bit 
of happy characterization of persons of whom 
we can never hear too much. Charles James 
Fox, Lord Holland's uncle, is her great favorite 
as he was the favorite of all his contemporaries. 
Sheridan she does not love over much, and reports 
Hare as saying that Sheridan was always play- 
ing a game when with women ; his forte being at 
a club over wine, and in debate. She reports 
several of his happy retorts, however, such as his 
reply when someone ran after him at the theatre 
to ask if algebra was not a language. "To be 
sure," said Sheridan, " an old language spoken 
by an ancient people called the Classics." She 
describes Parr's vanity and Knight's pedantry, 
and adds they " fell upon a doubtful Greek word 
and pulled at it like hungry curs." Dr. Davy, 
Master of Caius, is dubbed a "good-natured, tri- 
fling, insignificant man." Wordsworth she found 
" much superior to his writings, and his conver- 
sation is even beyond his abilities. I should 
almost fear he is disposed to apply his talents 
more towards making himself a vigorous conver- 
sationist in the style of our friend Sharp, than 
to improve his style of composition." 

Much allowance has occasionally to be made 
for the lady's personal bias, the editor sometimes 
bringing evidence from others to put us on our 
guard. But when all possible deductions have 
been made, the fact remains that to be a hostess 
of such power as to attract and hold the kind 
and the numbers of persons that gladly accepted 
her invitations to Holland House implies social 
gifts of a very high order ; and social gifts are 
not so common as to be spoken of lightly. The 
editor says : " She possessed to the full the gift 



of drawing out her guests. Conversation never 
flagged at her table, and however diverse were 
the sentiments of those who met under her roof, 
they felt that they were there able to fraternize 
on neutral ground." 

Two charming pictures of Lady HoUand, 
copied from paintings made while she was still 
in her youthfid grace and beauty, are given in 
the first volume. They aid us to realize some- 
what of her personal fascination, which, combined 
with " as warm a heart as ever beat in woman's 
breast," perhaps furnishes a clue to the charm 
that gave Holland House its reputation and still 
surrounds it with a distinction shared by few 
other houses on English soil. 

Anna Benneson McMahan. 



MoLiERE IN English Verse.* 

Learning from the title-page of Professor 
Curtis Hidden Page's translation of Moli^re that 
the verse plays are here for the first time rendered 
into English verse, one turns with mistrust the 
pages until convinced by favorite passages of 
"Tartuffe" or "The Misanthrope" that the 
arduous task of rendering the Master's rhymed 
hexameters into the heroic blank measure of the 
English classic drama has been adequately 
accomplished. So Gallic is the wit of Moli^re's 
comedies, so replete with French subtlety are 
their lines, that no one of the dozen or more 
English translations made heretofore has suc- 
ceeded in giving the English reader a true per- 
ception of either the finesse or the purely Gallic 
humor in which they abound. 

Of these, the best, as Professor Page himself 
agrees, is that by Charles Herron WaU in the 
Bohn Standard Library. Next in attractive- 
ness, the present writer is inclined to place the 
selection of seventeen plays made by Katharine 
Prescott Wormeley ; for, although the more 
complete translation by A. R. Waller is accom- 
panied by the French text and many notes, and 
that by the late Henri van Laun contains a val- 
uable introduction and appendices, the English 
of each of these writers is more laborious and 
stilted than is that of either Mr. Wall or Miss 
Wormeley. Earlier editions, or selections, of 
Moliere's plays in English were published in 
1714, 1732, 1748, 1762, and 1771 ; and one 
of these (the edition of 1732-1748) Professor 

* MoLiEKB. A New Translation, the Verse Plays being for 
the first time rendered into English verse, by Curtis Hidden 
Page. With Introduction by Brander Matthews. In two vol- 
umes. Foreign Classics for English Readers. New York: G. P. 
Putnam's Sons. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



79 



Page proclaims " a storehouse of apt words and 
phrases which I, like all modem translators that 
I know of, have pillaged freely." After ac- 
knowledging the aptness of this early transla- 
tion and the sufficiency of Van Laim's, it may 
be said without hesitation that Professor Page's 
is the first to which the word " excellent " may 
be justly applied. Were it not for the fact that 
but eight of the plays are to be found in the two 
volumes in which his text is presented, " defin- 
itive " would be the word to qualify this alto- 
gether admirable translation. 

Since these volumes form a part of the Messrs. 
Putnam's " French Classics for English Read- 
ers " series, the offence of incompleteness may 
not be laid entirely at the translator's door ; yet, 
when it is announced that in this series " the 
best and most representative works of each 
author are given in full," either he or his editor 
should be held accountable for the failure to 
include among Molidre's " best and most repre- 
sentative " plays " L'Etourdi." The best it is 
not, assuredly ; yet it represents the metamor- 
phosis of Moli^re, the hack-writer of a troupe 
of strolling players, to Molidre, the master of 
the art of comedy. Furthermore, it is typical 
of the first phase of his development — the time 
when his work was entirely influenced by Italian 
comedy ; when he had not realized that his duty 
was to attack the foibles and hypocrisy of soci- 
ety " with ridiculous likeness "; the time before 
he had exclaimed, " Let us cease to be Italian, 
let us disdain being Spanish, let us be French ! " 
Furthermore, one notes with regret the absence 
of " L'Ecole des maris," "L'Ecole des femmes," 
" George Dandin," and, above all, of " Le 
Malade imaginaire." Still, if but eight plays 
must be selected from the thirty-three existing, 
it is difficult to cavil at the choice Professor 
Page has made ; i. e., " Les Precieuses ridicules," 
"Don Juan," " Le Tartuffe," " Le Misan- 
thrope," "Le Medecin malgre lui," " L'Avare," 
" Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme," and " Les 
Femmes savantes." 

Three of these plays are in verse, and to 
these one turns, as has been said, with mistrust 
— not, be it added, of Professor Page's ability as 
a translator, but of the possibility of rendering 
adequately in English Moliere's alexandrines. 
Although in one or two instances verse trans- 
lations of important passages have been made, 
it has remained for Professor Page to render 
" Le Tartuffe," " Le Misanthrope," and " Les 
Femmes savantes " into English verse. Only 
one who has attempted the verse translation of 
occasional passages of Moliere's may appreciate 



thoroughly the almost insurmountable difficul- 
ties in Professor Page's path. These he has 
himself set forth in his illuminating preface. 
" It seems strange," he exclaims, " that in all 
these years no attempt has been made to trans- 
late Moliere's plays into English verse. . . . 
Yet should not the ideal of the translator be to 
produce in his own tongue a work as nearly as 
possible equivalent to the original ? And if so, 
how can he, handicapped as he necessarily is by 
the difference between two languages, accept the 
still greater handicap of the contrast between 
verse and prose?" 

" When it became necessary to include ' Tar- 
tuffe ' and ' The Misanthrope ' in this series of 
French Classics," he goes on to say, " I could 
not accept a prose translation as at all truly 
reproducing them for English readers. . . . 
The ideal which I set before myself was there- 
fore to say in good English dramatic verse 
(if I could) exactly what Moliere has said in 
good French dramatic verse.^' 

A praiseworthy ideal, yet difficult in its attain- 
ment. Indeed, so different are the geniuses of 
the two languages that the translator is met at 
the outset by prosodial obstacles in themselves 
almost insurmountable. Rhymed alexandrines 
have, as Professor Page says, " never been good 
English dramatic verse and never can by any 
possibility be so." It is a metre ill according 
with the spirit of our language, and wisely he 
has selected the unrhymed pentameter measure 
of our own dramatic poetry. It was impossible, 
of course, to retain by this means the melodious 
rhythm of the original, yet, by using the five- 
accent iambic of our heroic measure, he has at 
once suggested to the English ear dramatic 
poetry, thus overcoming the greatest difficulty 
of all translation, — to wit, the avoidance of 
foreign construction in the English rendering. 
Indeed, so thoroughly English is iambic blank 
verse, with its shifting of accents and occasional 
extra syllables, that the form itself conveys the 
suggestion of idiom rather than of translation. 
It is, moreover, our classic equivalent of the 
French rhymed alexandrines . Being the medium 
of all good English dramatic verse, it is histori- 
cally and dramatically equipollent to the French 
measure used by Moliere ; therefore it is the 
correct translation of that metre, the one above 
all others with which to convey the spirit, if not 
the letter, of Moliere's rhymed verses to the 
English ear. The phrasing, too, is a matter 
requiring nicety on the translator's part. It 
should be suggestive of the English comedy con- 
temporaneous with Moliere ; yet not so archaic 



80 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 1, 



as to destroy the surprising modemness of the 
great Frenchman's thought. 

Having indicated the obstacles in the path of 
the translator of Moli^re, it becomes a pleasure 
to state that Professor Page has surmounted 
them admirably. Nowhere does he give the 
fatal impression of translation. Indeed, so 
idiomatic is his verse, so suggestive of the 
English comedy of the time when Moliere wrote 
his masterpieces, that, if one were to venture a 
criticism, it would be to suggest that it is too 
English. In other words, in " avoiding all effort 
for ' poetical ' ornament," he has occasionally 
so " wilfully broken up the too regular move- 
ment of the French lines " that the rhythm 
suffers. A little more rhythm might have sug- 
gested more completely the French alexandrine 
gliding upon its classic course like a mighty 
river of harmony. Moreover, Moliere's verse 
is so singularly lacking in the imagery which is 
the charm of Shakespeare that, shorn of its 
rhythm, it is often too suggestive of metrified 
prose to be satisfying. But as Professor Page 
has so successfully avoided all appearances of 
translation, this criticism of his verse becomes 
so captious that one is tempted to apologize for 
having made it. Indeed, so acceptably has his 
task been accomplished that a just critic should 
only exclaim, " Well done I " 

In the prose plays, too, he has been so suc- 
cessful in his choice of apt words, so conscien- 
tious in his endeavors to avoid all Latinity, that 
they read like English comedies. Throughout 
them, he has used quips and expressions of the 
corresponding English period, and avoided 
Latin etymologies so thoroughly that they re- 
tain no flavor of translation. This is the highest 
praise that may be awarded a translator ; yet, 
while bestowing it, one cannot resist saying that 
he has occasionally been too faithful to the 
methods of, shall we say, Congreve or Mrs. 
Behn. For instance, when, in " Les Precieuses 
ridicules," Gorgibus, discovering the cruel trick 
that has been played upon his daughter and his 
niece, exclaims, " Oui^ c'est une piece sang- 
lante, mats qui est un ejfet de voire impei'ti- 
nence, infantes ! " Professor Page translates 
the passage in this wise, " Yes, it 's a cruel trick, 
but you may thank your own foolish impudence 
for it, you sluts ! " This rendering is doubtless 
suggestive of the restoration period of our 
drama ; yet Moliere, studied as he is in schools 
by young girls, should not be so restorationized 
as to have his Gallic epithet " inf antes " ren- 
dered in English by a word such as Professor 
Page has selected. Surely the unsullied term 



" wretches " would have expressed more thor- 
oughly the Frenchman's meaning. 

Still, in spite of such occasional lapses. Pro- 
fessor Page's work is a credit at once to his 
erudition and to his skill as a writer of English. 
To him all credit is due for an arduous task 
skilfully performed. Of the plays in his trans- 
lation it may be said truthfully that never 
before have they been so well rendered in our 
language, and that, in all probability, no suc- 
ceeding translator will surpass his admirable 
presentation of Moliere to the English reader 
in unlabored language. 

The book contains a comprehensive bibliog- 
raphy, in which the more vital works are indi- 
cated by asterisks ; furthermore, each play is 
accompanied by a scholarly notice in which 
salient features of its sources and presentation 
are adequately set forth. Professor Page's work 
itself is worthily introduced by Professor Brander 
Matthews, his scholarly prelude being a succinct 
biography of Moliere. The volumes, like the 
others of this series, are edited by Professor 
Adolphe Cohn. These three scholars, all mem- 
bers of the faculty of Columbia University, stand 
preeminent among American Molieristes. It is 
no small credit to them that so satisfactory and 
able a translation of Moliere should be the result 
of their joint labor. 

H. C. Chatfield-Taylor. 



The Ire lax d of To-day.* 



It is almost impossible at the present day to 
interest Americans in Ireland. The Irish, like 
the poor, they have always with them ; and there 
is little desire to know more than that, like all 
foreigners, the Irish are here on a hazard of new 
fortunes. Excepting the fine verses of Walt 
Whitman, Americans have written little about 
Ireland more serious than good-natured raillery 
growing out of habitual holiday touring in that 
country; or, if any more serious treatment is 
attempted, it shows a lamentable lack of acquaint- 
ance with the vital sources of Irish life and 
thought. Other peoples have found Ireland 
well worth their study. Even the English, from 
Edmund Spenser to Mr. Sydney Brooks, have 
not failed on the score of gravity in writing 
about Ireland, however much some of them 
have failed on the side of truth. The Germans, 
with their instinct for s cholarship, have gone to 

• CoNTEMPOBABY Ibbland. By L. Paul-Dubois. An English 
Translation, with an Introduction, by T. M. Kettle, M.P. New 
York : The Baker & Taylor Co. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



81 



Ireland to study the Irish mind in the only 
proper sources of such study — Irish manuscript 
literature. Thus, Zeuss, Zimmer, and Kuno 
Meyer have a lasting part in what may be, not 
only for Irish literature but for all literature, 
the discovery of a rich vein of poetry. 

It is to the French, however, that the Irish 
owe the salutary but perhaps thankless service 
of social and political criticism . ' ' Contemporary 
Ireland," by M. L. Paul-Dubois, a writer 
already having to his credit important works 
on social and economic questions, should be 
peculiarly acceptable to Americans who prefer 
a condensed survey of a subject rather than an 
exhaustive review. This work is the third 
important study of its kind for which the Irish 
are indebted to the French. In 1839 Gustave 
De Beaumont, with strict adherence to a cause- 
and-effect method of inquiry, revealed the social 
and political conditions in Ireland, when, under 
Daniel O'Connell, the Irish were first emerg- 
ing into democratic consciousness. A few 
decades later, Adolphe Perraud achieved the 
dismal task of chronicling the aftermath of the 
Famine by a history of the Irish as emigrants. 

In writing of the Ireland of to-day, M. Paul- 
Dubois had a problem not less complex than 
that of De Beaumont, and scarcely less discourag- 
ing than that of Perraud. For, in spite of 
many economic reforms, Ireland shows signs of 
fast-spreading national decay ; the Irish, though 
steadily winning concessions from England, are 
emigrating in an unceasing tide. M. Paul- 
Dubois had, however, a peculiar advantage over 
his predecessors. There is in the Ireland of 
to-day an opportunity for a criticism fascinat- 
ing to a student of things of the mind. Dreary 
as the outlook is for an Ireland economically 
vigorous, the Irish are for the first time develop- 
ing a national literature ; they are creating, too, 
schools of painting and of art criticism which 
have little to do with the Royal Academy in 
Piccadilly. To solve the problem of a race 
intellectually active in the midst of material 
decay is well worth the serious study of a pub- 
licist. M. Paul-Dubois skilfully meets the 
difficulty of this paradox ; he treats both phases 
of it by a method of outline, summary, and 
report, rather than by discussion. He knows 
that the secret of brevity in a comprehensive 
subject lies in the large grasp, the inclusive sur- 
vey, rather than in minute amplification. His 
book is thus valuable as a compendium, an ency- 
clopaedic reference ready for the student seeking 
the original sources of Irish history. 

The use M. Paul-Dubois himself makes of 



these sources is instructive. He adopts De 
Beaumont's conclusion, which fixed the cause of 
Ireland's decay on an alien aristocracy, respon- 
sible for the whole misgovernment of Ireland. 
Pressing his search no further than this, he 
touches upon the main movements and leading 
personalities of Irish history, with a definiteness 
and vigor typical of the entire book. Irish mind 
and character are treated authoritatively rather 
than critically. In sketching the material de- 
cline of Ireland, resulting from confiscation of 
the land, the author is at his best. He knows 
how to make statistics illuminating. His esti- 
mate, too, of the Irish Nationalist Party is dis- 
criminating, and vitally constructive as criticism. 
For these, and for an unequivocal sympathy 
with all the Irish still hope for as a nation, the 
author deserves the enthusiastic commendation 
which his translator, Mr. Kettle, gives him in 
the Introduction. It is not with the spirit of 
the book that fault may be found. Its tone is 
perhaps too temporizing in treating of some 
phases of Irish life, but a frank heartiness to- 
ward the people written of is everywhere 
apparent. What one deplores is that the jour- 
nalistic plan of the book works ill to its most 
vital topic — the regenerative influences now in 
progress in Ireland. This part of the discussion 
is too vital to be disposed of with the brevity of 
a business document. It needed keen reaction 
to the material at hand ; an editorial treatment 
large, free, conclusive. Moreover, the Irish 
themselves offered ample help in what they are 
publishing every day. Fond as they are of 
flight and fancy, they are not disdainful of se- 
vere statistics, rigid facts, lashing self-criticism, 
to prove that if they cannot survive as a race they 
at least understand why they are about to fail. 
To what extent M. Paul-Dubois has contributed 
to an understanding of this impending failure, 
depends on how much his readers can amplify 
his compact resume. 

It is to be regretted that M. Paul-Dubois's 
plan forbade a searching history of institu- 
tional life in Ireland. Humble as Ireland is, 
her history is in a measure analogous to all 
European history. For centuries she has had 
her Guelf and Ghibelline wars, not fought on 
battlefields, but in cabinets, in petty intrigues, 
in compromises and collusions, in every way 
but the one which leads to gain or glory to the 
Irish people. No Dante could symbolize this 
struggle ; it is without poetry, though not with- 
out pathos. Social life in Ireland at the present 
time requires, too, a fresh analysis. An aris- 
tocracy almost denuded of power, a middle class 



82 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 1, 



democratic but unstable, a rural population just 
entering upon a slight measure of independence, 
a pauper community hopeless and helpless — 
these afford fine material for a study by the 
publicist of large resource and keen judgment. 
Besides these classes, which are common to all 
European countries, Ireland has a social life 
based almost wholly upon sectarian distinctions 
— a condition unknown elsewhere. This is why 
Irish patriotism, however sincere, is always in- 
effectual. Here is a subject for a sociological 
writer to explore, to enlarge upon. In treating 
of Ireland's common-school system, M. Paul- 
Dubois has compressed into a single chapter 
what might have been the main theme of his 
book. Education in Ireland is less a subject 
for the statistician than it is a call to a real 
crusade. On its reformation, particularly in its 
elementary phases, depends the rehabilitation of 
a wasting Ireland. 

It is also to be regretted that some estimate 
of the present literary movement as a regenera- 
tive force in Ireland lay outside the purpose of 
M. Paul-Dubois's skiKully compressed treatise. 
A trenchant presentation of this movement as 
a national force, by a foreigner, might act as a 
stimulant and a corrective to a group of writers 
inclined too much to dreaming and not enough 
to thought. Irish writers of to-day, excellent as 
they are, learn too much of one another. They 
are withdrawing too much into a narrow coterie ; 
they have their hearts too much in ethnic Ire- 
land, and not enough in the Ireland, weak and 
desolate, of to-day. Much more important to 
an understanding of contemporary Ireland, how- 
ever, than a criticism of her poets is some gen- 
uine appreciation of her thinking men. Ireland 
has a saving remnant, but those comprising it 
win scant sympathy from M. Paul-Dubois, who 
dismisses them as " intellectuals," " Voltaireans," 
" men who ape the French." Had he come 
closer to the heart of Ireland's mystery, he 
would have understood that these are the men 
who are plucking it out. It is true that some 
of them ape the French. He as a Frenchman 
lost an opportunity to show how they can more 
effectually do this to the saving of Ireland. 
This is seen in his attitude toward Mr. George 
Moore. This gifted Irishman's history, per- 
sonal and artistic, is one of the most signifi- 
cant facts in the Ireland of to-day. Not till 
he imitated the erotic in Theophile Gautier, 
not till he had spent the prime vigor of his 
genius on novels contributive to English fiction, 
did he discover that his own country needed 
him. What he has done for her is in the nature 



of a plea for liberal thought, a more humanistic 
interpretation of life. A Frenchman is the last 
man to despise an effort of this kind. Others, 
too, are eager in this enterprise of creating a 
real zest for life among a people to whom prayer 
is work rather than work prayer ; whose women 
have the soul of Mary but not the thrift of 
Martha ; who as a race love art and neglect 
comfort. It is the " intellectuals " who under- 
stand and love the soul of their race. It is they, 
groaning because of the morass of backwardness 
into which Ireland has fallen, who will wish that 
M. Paul-Dubois's sympathy had been broader as 
weU as more intense. Ellen FitzGerald. 



Conclusion of the Schurz 
Reminiscences.* 



When near the end, Mr. Schurz told his 
friends that his only deep regret was the neces- 
sity of leaving his memoirs unfinished. As 
he had only reached the period of the first term 
of President Grant when his pen was laid down, 
every reader must keenly feel the same regret. 
Of this concluding volume, a little more than 
three himdred pages are from the hand of Mr. 
Schurz ; and this is followed by about one hun- 
dred and fifty pages by Mr. Frederic Bancroft 
and Professor WiUiam A. Dunning, devoted to a 
sympathetic and very satisfactory sketch of his 
career from 1869 to the end. In our notice of 
the first two volumes of these Reminiscences, 
tribute was paid to those qualities of mind and 
heart which made of Carl Schurz, notwithstand- 
ing the fact that his birth and early training 
were in a foreign land, one of the most admir- 
able fruitages so far secured from the tree of 
American institutions and citizenship. 

The great lesson of his life, as of that of 
Curtis, Godkin, and others of his circle of 
friends and fellow- workers, is that of independ- 
ence and intelligent idealism. He was never 
daunted by the fact that none of his high ideals 
in American politics was ever wholly attained. 
Temporary reverses were always to be expected, 
and each rebuff or delay was only an incentive 
to renewed effort. He had lived to see slavery 
wiped out, and the spoils system successfully 
beaten back from the larger part of the terri- 
tory which it had usurped ; and though protec- 
tionism and imperialism combined had taken 
fast hold upon the reins of government in the 

• The Reminiscences of Carl Schurz. Volume III., 1863- 
1869. With a Sketch of his Life and Public Services from 1869 
to 1906, by Frederic Bancroft and William A. Dunning. New 
York : The McClure Co. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



88 



closing years of his life, he never wavered in the 
faith that farther sighted and less selfish coun- 
sels would in the end prevail. 

To the blind party man of either side, his 
political career of course seemed wholly erratic. 
As a matter of fact, the annals of American 
public life present few examples of such 
thorough-going consistency. In every crisis the 
possible courses of action open to him were 
brought to the test of the fundamental aims 
toward which his political life was directed, and 
that course was chosen which, on the whole, 
seemed likely to do most for the honorable fur- 
therance of those aims. He was never one of 
those doctrinaire reformers who lose sight of 
actual conditions and disdain the small gains 
which are possible in a vain effort for the 
immediate attainment of more than is within 
immediate reach. And yet no small concession 
to his demands ever blinded his eyes to other 
shortcomings on the part of the politician or 
party by whom it was made. The half-loaf 
which is better than no bread could never be 
palmed oif on him as the whole. The high- 
tariff policy of the Republican party was always 
repugnant to him, on moral as well as economic 
grounds ; but that did not hinder him from 
supporting the candidates of that party so long 
as its attitude on the questions growing out of 
slavery and the Civil War seemed fairly correct 
and of predominant importance. With the sink- 
ing in relative importance of these war questions 
under the wise policy of Hayes, it was inevitable 
that his views on the civil service and the tariff 
should draw him to the support of Cleveland, as 
against a Republican with the personal record 
of James G. Blaine. But when the Democratic 
party repudiated Cleveland for Bryan and the 
free-silver craze, his long and frequently attested 
belief in the vital importance of a sound money 
system drove him to the support of McKinley. 
The imperialism into which McKinley was 
driven, against his own original inclination, was 
of course deeply repugnant to the man who had 
done more than any other to thwart a similar 
project in the days of Grant; and as other 
questions seemed temporarily of less significance 
than this, he gave his support to Bryan in the 
election of 1900. But in none of these cases 
did he ever stultify himself by saying a word in 
favor of any part of the platform which was not 
in harmony with his own judgment. Of course 
all this should have left him wholly without 
influence on public opinion, according to ordinary 
party theories ; but the fact of political history 
is that throughout his public career there was 



no man in the land whom political committees 
were more anxious to put on the stump in behaK 
of their candidates than Carl Schurz. Keen 
insight, high ideals, moral fervor, strict adher- 
ence to fundamental principles, and absolute 
freedom from partisan shackles, were his distin- 
guishing characteristics. Of course, even this 
cannot guarantee absolute inerrancy of judg- 
ment ; but it would be hard to find any com- 
bination of qualities calculated to leave a record 
to which posterity will turn with more unfailing 
respect and less necessity for apologies. 

We are glad to notice in the preface of this 
volume an implied promise of further publica- 
tions. It is well known that the epistolary 
correspondence of Mr. Schurz was enormous. 
This must have a high value both personally 
and historically, since he had among his corre- 
spondents many of the most prominent men of 
his time, and made constant use of the private 
letter as an indirect means of influencing public 
opinion on questions of the day. Letters of 
this latter sort are doubtless amply numerous 
for separate publication, and we would suggest 
to his literary executors the propriety of pre- 
senting them in this way, thus giving the more 
personal correspondence a better chance to 
impress upon the reader the more intimate 
personal characteristics of a man whose charm 
ing personality had no opportunity to make 
itself known to more than a small fraction of 
those who knew and admired him in his public 

^^^^^^- W. H. Johnson. 



The fourteenth annual meeting of the Central Division 
of the Modern Language Association of America was 
held at the Northwestern University Building, Chicago, 
late in December. English, Germanic, and Romance 
philology received each its proportion of attention. 
Among the more noteworthy contributions to accurate 
scholarship was a collection of new source-material 
relating to the liturgic Easter drama, made by Professor 
Neil C. Brooks of the University of Illinois. Professor 
Brooks threw much new light upon the raise en scene of 
the liturgic plays, and brought new evidence to bear 
upon the question of the relations between the early 
drama and pictorial art. Professor Weeks's discussion 
of the Boulogne manuscript of the " Chevalerie Vivien " 
was in line with his previous studies. Professor Beatty's 
discussion of the Resuscitation Motive in popular liter- 
ature, Mr. Fortier's brief survey of certain departments 
of French literature in Louisiana, and Professor Brown's 
Irish parallels to the Bleeding Lance of the Grail 
Legend, were all of particular interest. As business of 
special interest, should be mentioned a report from the 
Committee on the Photographic Reproduction of Early 
Texts, and the organization, during the session, of an 
Illinois Branch of the American Folk-lore Society, with 
Professor A. C. L. Brown as President and Dr. H. S. V. 
Jones as Secretary and Treasurer. 



84 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 1, 



Recent Fiction.* 



It is several years since we have had a novel by 
Mr. Mallock, whose pen has been chiefly busied with 
exposing the fallacies of socialism, or revealing the 
underlying antinomies of current doctrine in science, 
philosophy, and religion. That the hand of the nov- 
elist has not, however, lost its cunning, becomes 
sufficiently evident by the time we have read fifty 
pages of "An Immortal Soul." The story thus 
alluringly entitled opens engagingly upon an English 
country scene, and soon finds us deeply interested 
in a social group which has for its principal figures 
the local clergyman, the returned traveller who is 
standing for Parliament, a famous specialist in 
nervous diseases, and a young girl who is clearly 
intended to be the heroine. The elderly traveller 
finds in her more than a passing attraction, and the 
clergyman, who has marked her for his spiritual 
child, and whose sub-consciousness views her in a 
more human light, finds his influence weakened, 
and his hardly formulated hopes threatened by the 
advent of the stranger. Thus far, we are dealing 
with a novel simply, finished in style and descrip- 
tion, admirable in invention and characterization. 
But the author's " affair " has a much wider scope 
than this, and he no sooner gets us thoroughly inter- 
ested in his heroine and her associates than he 
approaches his special problem, which is that of 
diagnosing a case of dual personality. For one day 
his heroine is spirited away, and a young woman 
reputed to be her sister appears in her stead. The 
delicate and spiritually-minded Vivian gives place 
to Enid, who appears as a girl of sensual disposition, 
cunning in deception, and instinctively vicious. For 
a time we take her to be in reality another person, 
but at last it appears that she represents the tem- 
porary emergence of another personality ; and that 
from childhood Vivian and Enid have alternated the 
tenancy of the same body. Even physically, the 
change is sufficient to deceive, and Mr. Mallock 
contrives to surmount this crucial difficulty of his 
task. The eminent specialist is the only one who 

• An Immortal Soul. By W. H. Mallock. New York: Harper 
& Brothers. 

The Gentleman. A Romance of the Sea. By Alfred Ollivant. 
New York : The Macmillan Co. 

The War in the Air. By H. G. Wells. New York: The 
Macmillan Co. 

The Distributors. By Anthony Partridge. New York: The 
McClure Co. 

Captain Margaret. A Romance. By John Masefleld. Phila- 
delphia : The J. B. Lippincott Co. 

The Devil's Pulpit. By H. B. Marriott Watson. New York: 
Dodd, Mead & Co. 

The Ply ON the Wheel. By Katherine Cecil Thurston. New 
York : Dodd, Mead & Co. 

Rose- White Youth. By Dolf Wyllarde. New York : John 
Lane Co. 

In Calvert's Valley. By Margaret Prescott Montague. New 
York: The Baker & Taylor Co. 

The Fair Mississippian. By Charles Egbert Craddock. 
Boston : Houghton MiflBin Co. 

Barry Gordon. By William Farquhar Payson. New York: 
The McClure Co. 

Kincaid's Battery. By George W. Cable. New York: Charles 
Scribner's Sons. 



has all the facts in his possession, and to him the 
girl's dual nature becomes a study of absorbing 
interest. From about the middle on, the book be- 
come essentially a scientific treatise, and elaborate 
discussion figures more and more largely in its pages. 
Yet even this discussion is so fitted into the novelistic 
machinery that both human and dramatic interest 
are fairly well preserved throughout. The chief 
element of this interest is provided by the impact 
of the revelation upon the clergyman, who finds 
that he must reckon with facts hitherto undreamed 
of in his philosophy, and who feels the very founda- 
tions of his belief tottering beneath him. He be- 
comes perplexed in the extreme when he is forced 
to realize that this " immortal soul " which has been 
the object of his special solicitude is in reality a 
two-fold thing, and that its one aspect is as abhor- 
rent to him as its other is appealing. Which of the 
two is the real woman, the spiritual individuality ? 
The theory of possession sustains him for a time, 
but even that has to be abandoned in the light of a 
complete record of the girl's history, which makes 
it clear that her evil nature is, on the whole, the 
more predominant and masterful of the two. Mr. 
Mallock offers us no solution of the problem he has 
propounded. Science is not yet prepared to solve 
it, or to suggest a reconciliation between such phe- 
nomena and the older doctrines of psychology and 
religion. The subject is one after the author's 
heart, and he has never played more brilliantly his 
favorite rMe of the destructive critic. All his life 
he has been pointing out the logical defects in sys- 
tems of thought that seem superficially coherent, 
and in the present instance, although his form is that 
of fiction, he has given us one of the keenest and 
most merciless of his many analyses. Readers who 
do not expect this sort of thing in a novel may well 
complain that he does not play the game, and will 
be justified if their quest is for entertainment only. 
But if they are sufficiently serious of mind to enter 
into the spirit of the author's speculations, they will 
give, if anything, a more absorbed attention to his 
psychological discussion than to the fictive frame- 
work in which it is set. 

A romance of Napoleon and Nelson, and of the 
projected invasion of England in 1805, written in a 
style as choppy as the waves of the Channel which 
baffled the conqueror's ambition, is given us by Mr. 
Alfred Ollivant in the merry invention which he 
has labeled "The Gentleman." There are some 
four hundred pages of staccato sentences, chronic- 
ling the events of about ten days, and things are 
happening all the time. The happenings, moreover, 
are of the most exciting nature, whether by sea or 
by land, and someone is in mortal peril every hour. 
There are several heroes, including the "gentle- 
man," who is an Irish soldier of fortune acting as 
Napoleon's lieutenant, the midshipman (aged fif- 
teen ) who saves his country by ingenious and heroic 
devices, and the fighting parson whose death-dealing 
sword causes countless- Frenchmen and traitors to 
bite the dust. The story turns about a plot to 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



86 



kidnap Nelson, through the double dealing of Lady 
Hamilton, and the author prudently appends to 
the tale a declaration to the effect that he will 
answer no questions concerning it. The charac- 
terizations are extraordinarily vivid, and this is a 
remarkable feature when we consider the variety of 
types presented. There are a great many horrors 
on exhibition, and they are depicted with relentless 
realism, but they are also softened by an infusion 
of sentiment that makes them endurable, and they 
often become almost beautiful in the poetic light of 
the author's imagination. The spirit in which this 
work is conceived is made clear by the verses on 
" Our Sea " which serve as a preface. It is the 
spirit of invincible pride in the deeds of English 
seamen from the days of Drake to the days of 
Nelson, and the story itself reveals the composite 
inspiration of such diverse novelists as Marryatt 
and Kingsley and Blackmore, such diverse poets as 
Mr. Newbolt and Mr. Kipling and Mr. Swinburne. 

" The War in the Air " is a forecast of the develop- 
ment of atrial navigation which is extremely vivid, 
as are all of Mr. Wells's imaginings, and not so far 
removed as most of them have been from what we 
may admit to be possible. The air-ship is c^^tain to 
be used for military purposes in the next chapter of 
warfare, and will doubtless bring with it new possi- 
bilities of destruction. Mr. Wells makes of it a ter- 
rible instrument indeed, and describes its operations 
with a degree of technical realism that gives us a 
shuddering anticipation of what may happen when 
this new menace to civilization is developed only a 
little more than at present. Unlike most writers of 
fiction who allow their imagination to revel in dead- 
lier means of destruction than those heretofore avail- 
able, Mr. Wells does not assume that the common 
sense of mankind will abandon warfare when it comes 
to mean annihilation, but pictures for us an increased 
frenzy of strife which does not cease its fury until 
civilized society is blotted from the earth's surface, 
and what is left of mankind reverts to primitive con- 
ditions of savagery. Civilization suffers final collapse 
as a logical consequence of its own ingenious refine- 
ments, and the thought that it bears within its bosom 
the seeds of its own destruction is strongly impressed 
upon us. The protagonist of this world-tragedy is no 
heroic figure, but simply the sort of average cockney 
Englishman who has before served as the medium of 
the author's social satire. All the amazing things 
that happen in the book are exhibited in their reflec- 
tion in the consciousness of this pitiful example of 
humankind, and this proves the most effective part 
of the author's realistic machinery. 

" The Distributors," by Mr. Anthony Partridge, 
is a choice tale of a group of men and women, of 
the highest rank in English society, who, having 
exhausted all the obvious pleasures of life, resort to 
the unlawful in their quest for new sensations. They 
form a coterie known as the " Ghosts," ostensibly for 
the discussion of esoteric philosophies, but actually 
for the purpose of planning and executing what we 



may call high-class burglaries. Their victims are the 
selfish rich, who possess more jewels than is good 
for them, and the loot, when converted into money 
through the agency of a mysterious " fence " — as 
free from selfish motives ^s the " Ghosts " themselves 
— is bestowed anonymously upon various charities. 
All goes well with their plans until an American girl, 
piqued because her request to be made a member of 
the exclusive coterie is denied, and knowing nothing 
of the criminal side of their activity, sets a detective 
on their track, and uncovers things of which she had 
not dreamed. The exposure is averted by an appeal 
to her generosity, the society goes out of existence, 
and the most conspicuous of its members surprises 
himself by falling in love, which for him, at least, 
makes the further quest of illicit sensations quite 
unnecessary. There are numerous thrills in the fan- 
tastic romance, and much sprightliness of dialogue. 
The author of the " New Arabian Nights " would 
have found in Mr. Partridge a kindred spirit. 

" Captain Margaret," by Mr. John Masefield, is 
a romance of adventure in Virginia and on the 
Spanish main, the action being placed in the late 
seventeenth century. Charles Margaret is the com- 
mander of a ship equipped by certain London adven- 
turers for trade with the colonies. He is also a man 
with a broken heart, for the woman whom he loves 
has taken to herself a husband, and has been so 
deceived in the bargain that she mistakes a selfish 
brute of criminal instincts for a hero to be wor- 
shipped. Now it so happens that just as Captain 
Margaret is setting sail for America, this woman 
and her husband take refuge upon the ship, for the 
man has been guilty of forgery, and the officers of 
the law are hot in pursuit. The voyage is a long 
one, but not long enough to open the woman's eyes, 
either to the true character of her husband, or to 
the unselfish devotion of Captain Margaret. Then 
follow several chapters of a sojourn in Virginia, and 
a second hasty escape when the Governor receives 
orders from England to arrest the fugitive. The 
final episode is an expedition to the Isthmus in 
search of treasure, including a highly graphic ac- 
count of the sacking of one of the Spanish settle- 
ments. When the fugitive is dastardly enough to 
seek to betray his rescuers into the hands of the 
enemy, even his wife realizes a situation long before 
apparent to everyone else, and is not altogether heart- 
broken when he meets the fate he so richly deserves. 
Whereupon Captain Margaret comes into his own. 
It is a leisurely tale, but there is a great deal of 
life in it, and it is informed by the spirit of genuine 
romance. 

Curiously enough, " The Devil's Pulpit," which is 
also the tale of a semi-piratical expedition in search 
of treasure, is provided with a heroine by a device 
similar to that adopted by the author of " Captain 
Margaret." But this time the heroine is a girl, and 
it is in the company of her uncle, an absconding 
French banker, that she seeks refuge on the ship 
just as it is leaving England. The ship is sent out 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 1, 



by a syndicate, acting apon the information conveyed 
by a mysterious chart of the kind familiar to all 
readers of tales concerning treasure-seekers. Its des- 
tination is somewhere in the West Indies, and the 
ship's company, crew and owners alike, constitute a 
motley and picturesque assemblage of ruffians. Of 
course, there is a hero who saves the situation when 
matters become critical, and there are a few other 
decent fellows to stand by him. Equally of course, 
the treasure is found, the ruffians discomfited, and 
the affections of the heroine properly bestowed. As 
contrasted with " Captain Margaret," this romance 
is modern, and its exciting happenings are conceived 
in the spirit of comedy, commingled with melodrama. 
Mr. H. B. Marriott Watson is the writer, and we all 
know how inventive he can be, and with what high 
spirits he can carry his action through. 

Mrs. Thurston's "The Fly on the Wheel " is a 
simple story of Irish life and character, admirable in 
its fidelity to fact, and incisive in its delineation of 
middle-class character. The parish priest, the wife 
and mother of domestic instincts, her shrewish sister, 
the busybodies and gallants of the town, are all put 
before us in natural and life-like guise. And then, 
upon this bourgeois backgroimd is projected a great 
passion, which shipwrecks a family's happiness, and 
brings the heroine to suicide. This heroine is a young 
woman whose career is shaped rather by instinct than 
reason, and for whom the moral obligations upon 
which society is based have no effective influence. 
Returning home from her French convent, she falls 
in love with a staid man of affairs, the head of a 
peaceful household, and her infatuation makes him 
for a time forgetful of his honor. His life hitherto 
has been one of self-repression, and the impulses she 
evokes get the better of him. It seems to be a case 
of opposite electric charges, needing only contiguity 
to effect a union. In her case, it is the longing for 
ease and luxury ; in his, it is the craving for a richer 
life. These motives, acting in connection with a 
strong element of sensual allurement, prove the com- 
plete undoing of the woman, and the all but complete 
ruin of the man. It is the parish priest who inter- 
poses, and, by a few fitly-chosen words of admoni- 
tion, halts the man's steps upon the brink of the 
precipice. The story is strong, but not altogether 
agreeable. 

The heroine of " Rose- White Youth " is fifteen, 
and she dies of a broken back (supplemented by a 
broken heart) on her sixteenth birthday. The man 
in the case is a bronzed explorer, known to scientific 
fame, a guest of her family at their country house. 
It is a wretched misunderstanding that causes him 
to misjudge her, and it is not cleared up (for the 
girl) in time to save her from that last reckless ride 
along the cliff. The tragedy of her taking-off is 
singularly wanton, and we cannot quite forgive the 
author for thus shaping the story. For Betty is a 
nice girl with long red hair (mentioned upon nearly 
every page), and her youth does not prevent her 
from being a highly attractive heroine. This story is 



the work of " Dolf Wyllarde," and is marred by the 
frequent employment of sensual suggestion, a fault 
which has marked the earlier books of this writer, 
seeming to indicate an inherent vulgarity of mind. 

" In Calvert's Valley " is a story of the moun- 
tains of West Virginia, introducing us to much the 
same types of scenery and character as those of 
which Mr. John Fox makes the substance of his 
novels. Miss Montague has neither the humor nor 
the dramatic incisiveness of the writer with whom 
her work is thus inevitably brought into comparison, 
but she tells an effective story in her more leisurely 
way. Page Emlyn, a young business man from 
Cincinnati, comes to the Valley, and is at once in- 
volved in a tragedy. He is led to believe that, in 
the semi-consciousness of intoxication, he has pushed 
James Calvert over a cliff to his death. Meanwhile, 
the young woman with whom Calvert was in love is 
led to believe that her rejection of his advances has 
impelled him to suicide. Presently, these two young 
persons, each bearing a secret burden of imagined 
guilt, learn to love one another. The outcome 
remains long in suspense, and there are many search- 
ings of conscience on both sides before the accidental 
nature of Calvert's death is revealed, and all ends 
happUy for hero and heroine. The whole story is 
conscientious rather than brilliant, but it sustains a 
reasonable degree of interest throughout, and is 
clearly the product of close observation of the moun- 
tain folk and the mountain setting. 

It is natural to turn from this novel to " The Fair 
Mississippian," which is Miss Murfree's latest pro- 
duction. But Miss Murfree seems to have abandoned 
her mountaineers of late, and with this defection to 
have lost much of the singular power displayed in 
her earlier books. The present story, although it 
shows intimate acquaintance with its plantation scene, 
must be described as essentially commonplace. It is, 
moreover, so weighed down with irrelevant descrip- 
tion and incident that the action drags, and the criti- 
cal situations miss much of the effectiveness that 
might have been given them. We can find in this 
work little indication of the grip upon character 
which the writer once had, and still less of the flash 
of poetic imagination which used to light up her 
tales of the Great Smoky Mountains. The hero is a 
young man of fine education and broken fortune, who 
becomes the tutor of three boys on a Mississippi 
plantation. The excitement is furnished (in diluted 
form) by an attack of river-pirates, and by the antics 
of a ghost. The ghost turns out to be a member of 
the household, and his prowlings are concerned with 
the hiding of certain documents which affect the 
ownership of the estate. The chatelaine of the 
plantation is a creature of the most radiant beauty, 
in consequence whereof the tutor falls in love with 
her, and the fact that she is ten years his senior is 
not permitted to interfere with the conventional 
romantic outcome. 

The development of ancestral qualities, inherited 
from a long line of Virginian forbears, is the psy- 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



87 



chological problem worked out in Mr. Payson's 
story of " BaiTy Gordon." These qualities in- 
clude masterful energy, unregulated character, and 
a strong disposition to over-indulgence in drink. 
We first meet Barry as a schoolboy, reckless but 
engaging, and knowing little of his inheritance. 
Summoned to his home in Virginia, he finds his 
father at the point of death, and learns from his 
lips the burden of the family heredity. The knowl- 
edge sobers him, and does much to develop his 
manhood, but we feel that he will have a hard strug- 
gle to win victory over his unruly self. A period of 
life in New York follows, which comes to a dramatic 
climax one evening when he yields to temptation, 
becomes intoxicated, and is disgraced in the eyes of 
his friends. For his own good, his guardian cuts 
off his income, and he sets out to make his way in 
the world. A long period of wandering in many 
quarters of the globe gives him self-discipline, and 
saves his character from wreck. A final episode 
discovers him engaged in a wild adventure in 
Morocco, where his brother, a civil engineer, has 
been held captive. He effects his brother's rescue 
by deliberately offering his own life in exchange. 
Fortunately, this ultimate sacrifice is not required, 
but his willingness to make it shows how complete 
is the work of regeneration. In the end, his victory 
is crowned by the love of the woman whom he has 
worshipped, afar and hopelessly to his seeming, 
through all the years of exile. It makes a stirring 
tale, effectively told, and fine in its idealism. 

Mr. Cable's new novel is called " Kincaid's 
Battery," and is a story of New Orleans in the first 
years of the Civil War. History plays but a small 
part in it, however, and the interest is essentially 
private. We cannot describe it as a successful 
work of fictive art. Mr. Cable's style is as charm- 
ing as ever, and his power of characterization re- 
mains considerable, but he has so succumbed to the 
temptations of the allusive manner that nothing 
which may be called straightforward remains to his 
narrative. The effort needed to make out the 
pattern of his plot is greater than may legitimately 
be required of the reader, who is likely to get from 
it only vivid bits of color set in relief upon a nebu- 
lous background. For example, an early chapter 
is entitled " One Killed," and we are not sure, after 
reading it, who is killed, or why. Indirection carried 
to this extent becomes a literary vice, and all the 
author's charming geniality cannot atone for such a 
neglect of the story-teller's primary duty. The love 
story which drags through the four hundred pages 
is one of the most exasperating we have ever en- 
countered, made so by the extraordinary and unnat- 
ural effort on the part of each of the lovers to 
conceal from the other the state of his affections. 
A certain amount of misunderstanding and playing 
at cross-purposes is quite proper as a means of hold- 
ing the reader's interest in suspense, but the device 
is absurdly overworked in the present instance. 

William Morton Payne. 



Briefs on Ne^v Books 



Evidences of Two years ago there appeared Mr. 
life on the Percival Lowell's exceedingly attrac- 

red planet. ^ive book on "Mars and its Canals." 

This was so exhaustive in its treatment of the 
author's observations and his deductions from them 
that one is at first surprised at the appearance of a 
new work on Mars from the same pen, after so 
short an interval. The title of the new contribu- 
tion to Martian literature is " Mars as the Abode of 
Life" (Macmillan). Two years ago Mr. Lowell 
delivered a series of eight lectures at the Lowell 
Institute, in which he set forth his views as to 
planetary evolution in general and illustrated them 
by the example of the ruddy planet. These lectures 
were subsequently published in the " Century 
Magazine," and are now republished, with some re- 
vision, in book form. The author accepts the planet- 
esimal theory of the origin of the solar system ; from 
this starting point a planet, when it becomes suffi- 
ciently cool to be provided with water, begins to 
develop the lowest forms of life ; these, increasing 
in complexity as the process of evolution goes on, 
finally find issue in rich flora and fauna such as our 
earth possesses. As the surface of the planet loses 
its original heat the warmth necessary to varied 
manifestations of life is derived from the sun, which 
now becomes dominant in the production and pre- 
servation of life. Man appears, and brain begins 
to be a factor of the greatest significance. But the 
reign of brain cannot be so complete as to arrest 
the chain of changes due to the sun's action. The 
oceans begin to disappear, and the air to decrease 
in density ; extensive deserts come into being ; the 
inhabitants dig canals to utilize to the utmost the 
failing resources of water. In such a state as this 
Mr. Lowell believes the planet Mars now to be ; the 
" canals " seen there he thinks to be evidences of 
the handiwork of intelligent beings. He foresees 
the time when, on account of the loss of the supply 
of water on our neighbor, life will become extinct 
there ; this doom foreshadows that of man on the 
earth. For the earth slowly but surely is following 
the path which Mars is pursuing. The foregoing 
theory is elaborated by the author with the wealth 
of language, aptness of illustration, and power of 
exposition, manifested in his many preceding writ- 
ings. The book closes with sixty-odd pages of notes 
of a mathematical character, which are for the en- 
lightenment of astronomers. The outward appear- 
ance of the book is as delightful to the eye as its 
subject matter is to the mind. 

lanMaciaren The best ministers of religion are 
portrayed t, i t. -j o i 

by a fellow very much else besides, oo much 

Scotsman. was there to the late Dr. John Wat- 

son ("Ian Maclaren ") as man and author and 
humorist that the biographer might well despair of 
presenting any full and satisfactory likeness of him 
between the two covers of a book. Dr. W. Robert- 
son NicoU, in prefacing his life of his old friend — 



88 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 1, 



'"Ian Maclaren': The Life of the Rev. John 
Watson, D.D." (Dodd, Mead & Co.) — acknowl- 
edges the difficulty of his task, but assures the 
reader that there is nothing in the book that is not 
strictly true and based on indisputable authority. 
Also, he has wisely allowed his friend to exhibit his 
own character and his own opinions as far as possi- 
ble in letters and other writings of his own. The 
cooperation of Dr. Watson's son, Mr. Frederick W. 
Watson, is an additional voucher for the authenticity 
of the volume. Among other things to be noted in 
reading the book are the suddenness and unprepared- 
ness with which young John Watson, at the close 
of his university course at Edinburgh, received his 
father's behest that he should enter the church ; the 
zeal with which he threw himself into the work after 
some five years of preparation: the account of his 
literary work, which one might wish fuller and 
longer ; the description of his three visits to Amer- 
ica ; the extraordinary and militant patriotism which 
he, a minister of the gospel of peace, displayed on 
the outbreak of the Boer War ; and the very engag- 
ing picture of him as a member of society and an 
unrivalled teller of good stories. One is not sur- 
prised to read his own assertion that he knew not a 
word of the language of the church when he was 
called upon to become a preacher, and that he never 
really acquired its accent even after he had famil- 
iarized himself with its language. Dr. Nicoll has, 
acceptably enough, put something of himself into 
his book, as well as a good deal of " Ian Maclaren." 
It is all highly interesting and worth reading ; but 
does not, for some reason, have that indescribable 
quality of the " inevitable," the best possible, the 
complete and final, which the greatest biographies 
seem to possess. Perhaps the subject was too diffi- 
cult, too Protean, too impossible to master. 

President Eliot ^hat any treatment of a topic so 
on university professionally close to his interests by 
admtnistratto7i. g^ recognized a leader of academic 
thought as President Eliot will be received with 
widespread and keen attention is obvious. President 
Eliot delivered the Harris lectures, for 1908 at 
Northwestern University, Evanston, 111., and selected 
for his topic the problems arising from the career 
in which he is about to complete his fortieth year of 
service. These lectures, now reprinted (Houghton 
Mifflin Co.), form a serviceable statement of the 
several constituent factors that make the American 
University and its administration distinctive, com- 
plex, and engrossing. To the interested outsider, 
and particularly, it may be surmised, to the foreign 
student of American institutions, the volume will 
prove helpful. The style is direct, terse, orderly, 
trenchant ; and thus reflects the clear-minded execu- 
tive. Having chosen so objective, almost detached, 
a point of view. President Eliot has accomplished 
his pm'pose with the success belonging to poise, 
insight, experience. Also, as was inevitable, are 
there many forcible opinions scattered through the 
descriptions of the status quo. Yet while it may 



appear ungracious to find fault with the author for 
not doing what he did not set out to do, the regret 
is too keen, and too close at hand to be suppressed, 
that the venerable president of Harvard University 
did not choose to take the public into his confidence, 
and write with less reserve, substituting analysis 
and criticism for mere description, and thus making 
available the vast resources of wisdom to justify 
policy and action, which he more than any other has 
at command. A volume not so able, doubtless, yet 
serving adequately the same purpose, could have been 
written by any one of a score of University presi- 
dents. The volume that President Eliot alone could 
have written is the source of regret, — one that 
might have really discussed the vital issues upon 
which not practice alone but sound policy must in 
the future be based. 

" William the Conqueror and the 
XetZoZ: R'^le of the Normans," by Mr. Frank 

Merry Stenton, M.A., late Scholar of 
Keble College, Oxford, is volume No. 43 of the 
"Heroes of the Nations" series (Putnam). This 
is one of the more serious biographies in a series 
whose authors are not quite at one in their methods 
of treatment ; which fact does not prevent its being 
extremely readable, as well as valuable in content. 
An elaborate Introduction makes it clear that the 
native government lost control because it was utterly 
inadequate to the task of governing, and that the 
Normans did more in a generation than their pre- 
decessors had done in a century toward unifying the 
social customs of England. The concluding chapter, 
which deals with the Domesday Book, is a notably 
thoughtful piece of work. The general reader will 
probably be somewhat startled to learn that this 
remarkable fiscal census, although it '' may claim to 
rank as the greatest record of mediaeval Europe," 
is based on earlier apportionments which are evi- 
dently arbitrary and far from accurate, so that " a 
fiscal arrangement which can be traced back to the 
time of Alfred " was still " utilized in the days of 
Richard I. and Hubert Walter." The secret of 
William's success seems to have been largely the 
tact that taught him to keep his hands off. The 
volume is elaborately equipped with charts and 
maps, and represents original investigation of much 
value. 

The origin and ^^ ^ ^andy volume of three hun- 
growth of dred pages, entitled " Ideals of the 

^meWcanpoJttv. Repuijiig" (Little, Brown, & Co.), 
Dr. James Schouler has collected a dozen chapters 
— based on "occasional lectures given by the author 
in 1906-8 at the Johns Hopkins University, to close 
a connection of seventeen years with its Historical 
Department" — whose purpose is "to trace out 
those fundamental ideas, social and political, to 
which America owes peculiarly her progress and 
prosperity, and to consider the application of those 
ideas to present conditions." He begins with a 
chapter on " The Rights of Human Nature," and 
discusses the historic assertion of our Declaration, 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



89 



" That all men are created equal," etc. A not very 
convincing defense is made of this remarkable 
pronouncement ; it amounts in brief to this, that in 
personal and civic rights all men stand on a level. 
"Types of Equality" is the heading of the next 
chapter, which considers, without offering any new 
solution, the problem of alien races within our bor- 
ders. Discussions of such subjects as civil rights, 
government by consent, written constitutions, parties 
and party strife, and servants of the public, succeed 
one another, with the due and expected exhibition 
of ripe scholarship, but with little of a new, striking, 
or unusually important nature. Perhaps the topics 
selected hardly admit of very original treatment; 
and doubtless, too, the printed page is not so favor- 
able a medium for these lectures as was oral delivery. 
Somewhat remarkable, however, and having a note 
almost of prophecy in it, is the following passage 
from the author's presidential address before the 
American Historical Association in 1897. The 
address itself, or rather a part of it, under the title 
"A New Federal Convention," closes the volume. 
" In no respect, as it seems to me," says Dr. 
Schouler, "is it plainer that more than our present 
bare majorities of a quorum should be required, 
than in such momentous legislation as disturbs our 
national equilibrium by admitting new States into 
the Union or by sanctioning the acquisition of alien 
territory with an alien population. In the latter 
respect we seem simply to have gone forward with- 
out clear warrant from our Federal charter at all." 
Safe, sane, and scholarly are the proper adjectives 
to apply to the book as a whole. 

To young readers and to old readers, 
iade-^Icum. ^^^^^r than to readers half-way be- 
tween, books on reading and the 
choice of books are often peculiarly attractive. 
Middle-aged bookmen are commonly too busy, either 
in reading books or in writing books, or both, to let 
their thoughts dwell expectantly on a paradise of 
books that lies in the radiant future, or to linger in 
fond retrospect on an Augustan age of books that 
has its place in the golden past. " Books and 
Reading" (Baker & Taylor Co.), compiled by 
Messrs. Roscoe Crosby Gaige and Alfred Harcourt, 
is an excellent collection of essays and fragments 
from the great bookmen of modern times — stimu- 
lating to the young reader and full of pleasant 
memories to the old. The compilers have braved 
the charge of repetitious platitude and have gathered 
together "the most human things written about 
books," no matter if now and then somewhat trite 
and tiresomely familiar. Of course every reader 
will take the liberty to say to himself that if he 
had edited the volume he would have included some 
things omitted, and omitted some things included. 
Among the more conspicuous omissions is Richard- 
son's " Choice of Books," a veritable little classic of 
its kind, which might well have contributed one 
brief chapter at least. Of less important exclusions 
may be noted Willmott's " Pleasures of Literature," 



which went through five editions between 1851 and 
1860, was at least five times issued in German, and 
has lately been republished in this country. The 
compilers' acknowledgments include one to the 
publishers of T. B, Pond's (meaning J. B. Pond's) 
" Eccentricities of Genius "; but neither in the index 
nor in the table of contents nor in the body of the 
book do we discover any trace of the genial Major. 
The book is one of the handiest and usefulest and 
most attractive of such manuals. 



Sixteenth "^^^^ Edith Sichel has added to her 
century French Studies on the French women of the 
portraits. sixteenth century a volume on " The 
Later Years of Catharine de' Medici " (Dutton). 
In it she gives the history of the religious wars by 
sketching the portraits of the principal personages 
of the period, emphasizing by anecdotes, which are 
often of unusual interest, their individual charac- 
teristics. Much of the material has been drawn 
from contemporary memoirs and Archives curieuses. 
At times the reader may feel that the portraits would 
have gained in significance if the background of 
conditions and tendencies in politics and literature 
had been drawn with greater fulness. The chap- 
ters on Charles IX. and Queen Margot possess a 
special interest, partly because their history is less 
familiar, but mainly because their characters were 
so strangely complex. In describing her person- 
ages the author seems occasionally to force the note 
and to go beyond the evidence of her documents. 
One becomes a little skeptical in regard to her accu- 
racy when she repeatedly dates the peace of Amboise 
in 1562. In dealing with the marriage negotiations 
of 1565 between Catharine, in behalf of the boyish 
Duke of Anjou, and Queen Elizabeth, it is as a 
woman rather than as an historian that the author 
records Elizabeth's age, stating that she was twenty- 
five, although she was born in 1533. The volume 
is enriched with prints taken from the great Paris 
collections. The bibliography should have men- 
tioned the new "Histoire de France," edited by 
Lavisse, for the volume on this period is done with 
masterly skill. ____^ 

The latest addition to the liouis XVII. 
'S'th^BZS. ™y«tery is a volume entitled "The 

Little Dauphin," written by Miss 
Catherine Welch, and published by Messrs. Scrib- 
ner's Sons. It would seem that a problem which, 
beginning with the " Question importante sur la 
Mort de Louis XVII.," has called forth more than 
a thousand printed solutions and even maintained 
several monthly periodicals, would be pretty thor- 
oughly threshed out by this time. The new book 
claims to be a distinct addition to the literature on 
the subject, not because it contributes additional 
information, — it is for the most part merely a rep- 
etition of matter that can be found in other easily 
accessible volumes, — but because it offers no solu- 
tion at all, simply a catalogue of the solutions that 
other writers have concocted or preserved. The 
book is bright and eminently readable ; the author 



90 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 1, 



has steeped herself so thoroughly in the work of the 
magical historical " restorer " LenStre that she has 
caught a little of his wizardry. Notable illustra- 
tions are the famous Thackeray picture supposed to 
represent the Little Dauphin, now iu the possession 
of Lady Ritchie, and the hitherto unpublished por- 
trait of the pretender Naundorff, from the collection 
owned by M. Foulon de Vaulx. 

A Shelley ^^^ " Symposium " is considered the 

translation most perfect in form of the Platonic 

fi-om Plato. dialogues, and also one of the pro- 

foundest and most suggestive in its thought and 
specidation. Shelley's translation of it is regarded 
as one of the best examples of his prose style. 
Under the title, " The Banquet of Plato," this trans- 
lation appears in a limited edition from the Riverside 
Press (Houghton Mifflin Co.), beautifully printed 
from Montaigne type on Batchelor hand-made paper, 
and bound in plain boards, with paper label. It 
was in the summer of 1818 that Shelley, then at the 
Baths of Lucca, occupied his mornings for nine or 
ten successive days in turning this dialogue on love 
(the only one besides the " Phaedrus " that discusses 
the theme in detail) into English. The subject was 
congenial, and his love of Greek and familiarity 
with it, combined with his intuitive sympathy with 
literary genius wherever found, made the task of 
translation a light one. His version is skilful and 
fluent, and is perhaps even above the Platonic level 
in nobility of expression. But while it well catches 
the spirit, it is not always accurate in the letter ; for 
which, of course, Shelley has long since been for- 
given. The external appearance of the present 
reprint is in every way worthy of the text. 



:notes. 



Mr. J. C. Snaith, author of " William Jordan, Jr.," has 
a new novel ready for immediate publication. 

Mr. William de Morgan's new book, " Blind Jim," is 
now ready for the printer, but will not be brought out 
until next Spring. 

A new book by Mrs. Jennette Lee, author of " Uncle 
William," will appear this month. The new book is 
called " Simeon Tetlow's Shadow." 

A new volume (the third) in the " Cambridge History 
of English Literature " will appear this month. Its sub- 
ject is " The Renascence and the Reformation." 

Mr. John Reed Scott, author of " The Colonel of the 
Red Huzzars " and " The Princess Dehra," has written 
a new novel, to be published in the Spring, under the 
title, " The Master of Fairlawn." 

Mr. H. C. Chatfield-Taylor, author of the standard 
biography in English of Moli^re, has written a novel 
dealing with the early life and love affairs of the great 
French dramatist. The book, entitled "Fame's Path- 
way," will appear in March. 

When the Pennells' « Life of Whistler " was Erst 
brought out it was the understanding, both in London 
and Philadelphia, that the work would be limited to 
the original edition, but the demand for the book has 
been so unexpectedly large that arrangements have 



been made for another impression. The American 
publishers annoimce that the new edition will be ready 
immediately. It will contain all the original plates 
and reproductions. 

Last Spring Professor J. B. Bury of Cambridge was 
the guest of Harvard University, where he delivered the 
Lane Lectures. The substance of these lectures has been 
incorporated into a book entitled " The Ancient Greek 
Historians," which the Macmillan Co. will publish this 
month. 

" Balthasar " (the titular story in a collection of seven) 
and " The Well of St. Clare " are two new volumes in 
the English edition of the writings of M. Anatole France, 
now in course of publication by the John Lane Co. Mrs. 
John Lane translates the former of these volumes, while 
we owe the latter to Mr. Alfred AUenson. 

Mr. J. G. Bartholomew's "Handy Reference Atlas of 
the World " is now in its eighth edition, imported by 
Messrs. E. P. Dutton & Co. It is a compact volume, 
and its maps, although small, are clearly printed and 
artistically agreeable. They include a large number 
which give us small areas on a relatively large scale. 

Mr. Owen Seaman, editor of " Punch," has collected 
some forty pieces, mostly of his recent humorous verse, 
into a volume called " Salvage," which Messrs. Holt will 
soon publish. As was the case with the author's " A 
Harvest of Chaff " and " Borrowed Plumes," most of 
the verses in the new volume first appeared in " Punch." 
It is interesting to note, in connection with the recent 
award of the Nobel Prize for literature, that " Rudolph 
Eucken's Philosophy of Life," by Professor W. R. Boyce- 
Gibson, is already in a second edition. Professor and 
Mrs. Gibson have almost ready for publication in the 
Spring a translation of Eucken's "The Meaning and 
Value of Life." 

Miss Margaret Symonds's " Days Spent on a Doge's 
Farm " is, as the publishers say, a book which " makes 
of every reader a friend." It is now republished by 
the Century Co. in an enlarged edition, with enough 
additional illustrations to bring the number close to three- 
score. The introduction supplied for this new edition 
takes the form of a memoir of the Countess Pisani, whose 
coimtry estate is the scene of the volume. 

" German Literatvu-e in American Magazines, 1846 to 
1880 " is the title of a monograph by Mr. Martin Henry 
Haestel now published by the University of Wisconsin. 
It continues the work of Dr. S. H. Goodnight upon the 
same subject prior to 1846, published two years ago in 
the same series. The last year considered by Mr. 
Haestel is the first year of The Dial, and four refer- 
ences are given to our first voliune, but curiously enough 
the only index entry of the periodical refers to the late 
Moncure Conway's Cincinnati "Dial" of 1860, from 
which eight articles on German literature are catalogued. 
Among the more important books on Messrs. A. C. 
McClurg & Co.'s Spring list are the following: A history 
and forecast of the Panama Canal, entitled " The World 
United," by Mr. John George Leigh, a London engineer 
and specialist on the canal; "Letters from China," by 
Mrs. Sarah Pike Conger, wife of the late Minister to 
China; " The Empire of the East," an illustrated de- 
scription of Japan, by Mr. H. B. Montgomery; "A 
Summer in Tomaine," a profusely illustrated study of 
the old chateaux of the Loire, by Mr. Frederick Lees; 
and " A Summer Garden of Pleasure," by Mrs. Stephen 
Batson, with thirty-six colored illustrations by Mr. 
Osmund Pittman. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



91 



Topics in IjEAding PERiODiCAiiS. 

February, 1909. 

Aerial Warfare, Menace of. H. B. Hersey. Century. 
Amalfian Cornice Road, The. Arthur Ck)lton. Putnam. 
American Art and Its Past. W. L. Price. Craftsman. 
American Artists, A Plea for. A. Hoeber. North American. 
American Commerce, Extension of. A. L. Bishop. Atlantic. 
American Diplomatic Service. Herbert H. D. Peirce. Putnam. 
American MarineTo-day.The.G. A. Chamberlain. TToridro-dav. 
American Riviera, The. Charles F. Holder. Outinp. 
American Social Life in Illustration. A. Hoeber. Bookman. 
Anti-Tuberculosis Campaign, The. O.F.Lewis. World's Work. 
Arabian Horse in England, The. David Buffum. Outing. 
Armours, The. Arthur Brisbane. Cosmopolitan. 
Art Collections of Chicago, Private. G, D'Unger. World To-day. 
Art, Modernism in. Christian Brinton. Putnam. 
" Bahai Revelation," The. Jean Masson. Review of Reviews. 
Banking and Currency Problem. M. W. Hazeltine. No.Amer. 
Barnard, GeorgeQ. M.TwomblyandW.Downes, World'sWork. 
Baudelaire Legend, The. James Huneker. Scribner. 
Berlin, Tenements of. Madge C. Jenison. Harper. 
Botanists at St. Louis. P. Spaulding. Popular Science. 
Broadway's Thousand Miles. A. H. Ford. World To-day. 
Broward, Napoleon, Career of . R. D. Paine. Everybody's. 
Brunswick, Romantic. R. H. Schauffler. Century. 
Caine, Hall, Reminiscences of — VI. Appleton. 
Calabrian Disaster, The Latest. W.H.Hobbs. Popular Science. 
Camel Experiment, Jefferson Davis's. W.L.Fleming. Pop.Sci. 
Canada, Race Prospects in. C. R. Henderson. World To-day. 
Caribbean, Our Commerce in the. R. A. Wilson. World's Work. 
Cats, The Aristocracy of . Virginia Roderick. Everybody's. 
China That Is, The. D. Lambuth. Review of Reviews. 
Christianity, The Salvation of. Chas. P. Aked. Appleton. 
Church and Social Service. Shailer Matthews. World To-day. 
Cleveland the Man. George F. Parker. McClure. 
Cliff Dwellers' Club of Chicago. Bookman. 
Cotton-Grower's Plight, The. D.J.Sully. Cosmopolitan. 
Country Life Commission, The. A. Inkersley. World To-day. 
Democracy, The Trend Toward. W.A.White. American. 
Desert, Reclaiming the. Forbes Lindsay. Craftsman. 
Deserter-Hunting. John S. Wise. Putnam. 
Digestion, Young's Observations on. L. B. Mendel. Pop. Sci. 
Dime Museum, The. R. L. Hartt. Atlantic. 
Dyeing Silk. Charles Pellew. Craftsman. 
Educational Emphasis, A Change of. E. A. Birge. Atlantic. 
Eliot, George, and Lewes. Lyndon Orr. Munsey. 
Emmanuel Movement, Dangers of. J. M. Buckley. Century. 
England, The Beaten Track in. W.G.Brown. Atlantic. 
English from an American Viewpoint, The. Scribner. 
English Spelling, Simplifying. Max Eastman. No. American. 
Faerie Queene: Where It was Written. A. Meynell. Atlantic. 
Farm Movement, A Stay-on-the. W.P.Kirkwood. Wo7-ld To-day. 
Florida, The New. H. N. Casson. Munsey. 
Food of the City Worker. HoUis Godfrey. Atlantic. 
Fuegian Archipelago, In the. C. W. Furlong. Harper. 
German Painting To-day. Christian Brinton. Scribner. 
Gothenberg System, The. H. S. Williams. McClure. 
Gothic Architecture, Lesson of. E. A. Batchelder. Crafttvuan. 
Greek Marbles, Some Recent Finds in. Putnam. 
Hack, The, and his Pittance. John Walcott. Bookman. 
Hanks, Nancy. Harriet Monroe. Century. 
Hazing, A History of. Harry Thurston Peck. Munsey. 
Helena, Queen, Italy's Heroine. Review of Reviews. 
House of Representatives' Rules. A. P. Gardner. No. American. 
Hysteria and Faith Cures. Pearce Bailey. Appleton. 
" Ik Marvel." Joseph B. Gilder. Review of Reviews, 
Indians of the Stone Houses. E. S. Curtis. Scribner. 
Insurance Legislation, Defective. J.P.Ryan. North American. 
Italy's Exhausting Emigration. W. E. Weyl. Review of Revs. 
Japan, Southernmost. R. Van V. Anderson. Popular Science. 
Jewish History, What Is? A. 8. Isaacs. North American. 
Kaiser, Younger Children of the. Theodore Schwarz. Munsey. 
Kipling Poem, The Last. R. D. Pinkerton. Bookman. 
Labor and the Railroads. J. O. Fagan. Atlantic. 
Lifelnsurance, Romance of —IX. W.J.Graham. World To-day. 
Life on Earth, Origin of. W. Kaempffert. McClure, 
Lincoln. George L. Knapp. Lix)pincott. 
Lincoln, An Audience with. T. B. Bancroft. McClure. 
Lincoln and Darwin, Emancipators. Appleton. 
Lincoln at the Helm. John Hay. Century. 
Lincoln Centennial Celebration, The. Review of Reviews. 
Lincoln Correspondence, A. W. H. Lambert. Century. 
Lincoln-Douglas Debates. Hannis Taylor. North American. 
Lincoln, If Russia Had a. E. Tobenken. World To-day. 
Lincoln Literature, Old and New. Review of Reviews. 
Lincoln, Mrs. Abraham, and Her Friends. W. Steell. Munsey. 



Lincoln, Our Heritage in. World To-day. 
Lincoln, Recollections of. James G. Wilson. Putnam. 
Lincoln, Roosevelt's Tribute to. Review of Reviews. 
Lincoln the Leader. Richard Watson Gilder. Century. 
Lincoln, What I Saw of . Grenville M. Dodge. Appleton. 
Lincoln's, A Letter of. World To-day. 
Lincoln's Nomination. Mary King Clark. Putnam. 
Lowell, A. Lawrence. F. A. Ogg. Review of Reviews. 
Maeterlinck and his Home. A. F. Sanborn. Munsey. 
Maine Faces Bitter Facts. Holman Day. Appleton. 
Margin Gambling in Wall St. F. S. Dickson. Everybody's. 
Messina: A City That Was. H. F. Alexander. World To-day. 
Mexico, American Invasion of. E. H. Talbot. World's Work. 
Mexico, Legends of the City of. T. A. Janvier. Harper. 
Mississippi, A Trip through. B.T.Washington. World's Work. 
Modernism. Newman Smyth. Scribner. 
Monorail Road for N. Y. F. C. Bryant. World To-day. 
Moulton, Louise C, in London. J. B.Rittenhouse. Bookman. 
Musical Suggestion. Redf em Mason. Atlantic. 
National Academy of Design. G. Edgerton. Craftsman. 
National Arts Club of New York. Gardner Teall. Craftsman. 
Navy of the Land, Our. G. K. Turner. McClure. 
New York at Table. Richard Duffy. Putnam. 
Night-riders, The. Edward A. Jonas. World's Work. 
Niimberg, The Spell of. P. Van Alstyne. Craftsman. 
Opera and the People. Mary Garden. Everybody's. 
Opium, Japan's Crusade against. K. Midzuno. No. American. 
Paris, The Dark Side of. Bertha P. Weyl. World To-day. 
People's Institute, The. J. Collier. World To-day. 
"Pericles." Theodore Watts-Dunton. Harper. 
Philippines, American Rule in. W.C.Forbes. Atlantic. 
Poe, The Weird Genius. Elisabeth E. Poe. Cosmopolitan. 
Population, An Experiment in. Walter Weyl. Atlantic. 
Radium and the Earth's Internal Heat. J. Joly. Harper. 
Railroad Terminal, The. E. Hungerford. Harper. 
Railroads, An Bra of Better. C. M. Keys. World's Work. 
Religio-Medical Movement. A. McL. Hamilton. No. American. 
Renaud, Abb6 Maurice. H. C. Finck. Century. 
Research, Instruments of. L. A. Bauer. Popular Science. 
Rio de Janeiro, Exposition at. R.De C.Ward. Popular Science. 
Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research. Review of Reviews. 
Rockefeller Institute, Work at. B. J. Hendrick. McClure. 
Rockefeller, J. D., Reminiscences of — V. World's Work. 
Rosebud Reservation, Opening. Lindsay Denison. American. 
Rosecrana, The Conference over. E. P. Oberholtzer. Scribner. 
Saint-Gaudens, The Student. Homer Saint-Gaudens. Century. 
Salem Ships and Sailors, Old — XIII. R. D. Payne. Outing. 
School, The Choice of a. Frederick Winsor. Appleton. 
Sembrich, Marcella, Career of. L. Reamer. Munsey. 
Shaler, Nathaniel S., Autobiography of — II. Atlantic. 
Shaw, Bernard, Philosophy of. A.Henderson. Atlantic. 
Sloan, John, Etchings of. C. R. Barrell. Craftsman. 
Slums as a National Asset. C. E, Russell. Everybody's. 
Smoke Nuisance and Railroads. C.R.Woodruff. Pop. Science. 
Smoke Problem and Government. J. L. Cochrane. Rev. of Revs. 
Spain, A Second-class Trip into. E. C. Allen. Outing. 
Speech of the Uneducated, Archaic. T. R. Lounsbury, Harper. 
Stock Exchange : If It Should Close. J. H. Gannon, Jr. Appleton. 
Stockholdersof the U.S., Report to. A.W.Page. World's Work. 
Tariff, Future of the. R. P. Porter. North American. 
Tariff Revision, Perplexities of. A. H. Washburn. No. Amer. 
" Tidal Waves " after Earthquakes. T. J. J. See. Munsey. 
Treves, Sir Frederick. Wilfred T. Grenfell. Putnam. 
Truck Farming in Florida. E. P. Powell. Outing. 
Victoria, Queen : An American View. 8. C. Stevenson. Century. 
Welles, Gideon, The Diary of — T. A tlantic. 
White Plague, The Great. C. Harcourt. Craftsman. 
Wisconsin University. Lincoln Steffens. American. 
Woman's Invasion of the Working World — IV. Everybody's. 
Woman's Position — II. Duchess of Marlborough. No. A mer. 
Woman's Problem. Annie Nathan Meyer. Appleton. 
Women of the West, Pioneer. Agnes G. Laut. Outing. 
Yankee Notions, Millions in. G. E. Walsh. World To-day. 



liiST OF New Books. 



[The following list, containing 62 titles, includes books 
received by The Dial since its last issue.'] 

BIOGRAPHY AND REMINISCENCES. 

William Morris. By Alfred Noyes. 12mo, pp. 156. " English 
Men of Letters." Macmillan Co. 75 cts. net. 

The Life of James Robertson, Missionary Superintendent 
in the Northwest Territories. By Charles W. Gordon (Ralph 
Connor). Illus., 8vo, pp. 403. F. H. Revell Co. $1.50 net. 



92 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 1, 



HISTOBY. 

The Hakingr of Canada. By A. G. Bradley.! 8vo, pp. 396. 

E. P. Button & Co. $3. net. 
The True Story of the Axnerioan Flagr. By John H. Fow. 

Illus. in color, 8vo. Philadelphia: William J. Campbell. 

75 cts. net. 

GENERAL lilTEBATTJRE. 

On Nothing: and Kindred Subjects. By H. Belloc. Second 
edition ; 16mo, pp. 261. E. P. Button & Co. $1.25 net. 

G. K. Chesterton : A Criticism. With portraits, 12mo, pp. 272, 
John Lane Co. $1.50 net. 

Some New lilterary Valuations. By William Clever Wil- 
kinson. 12mo, pp. 411. Funk & Wagnalls Co. $1.30 net. 

The Works of James Buchanan : Comprising: his Speeches, 
State Papers, and Private Correspondence. Collected and 
edited by John Bassett Moore. Vol. VI., 1844-1846. 8vo, 
pp. 509. J. B. Lippincott Co. (Sold in sets only.) 

Peace, Power, and Plenty. By Orison Swett Harden. With 
portrait, 12rao, pp. 335. T. Y. Crowell & Co. $1. net. 

Lincoln's Use of the Bible. By 8. Trevena Jackson. With 
portrait, 16mo, pp. 35. New York: Eaton & Mains. Paper, 
25 cts. net. 

NEW EDITIONS OF STANDARD LITERATURE. 

The Works in Prose and Verse of Charles and Hary 
Lamb. Edited by Thomas Hutchinson, M. A. In two vols., 
with portraits, 12mo. ' ' Oxford Edition." Oxford University 
Press. $1.50 net. 

Caesar's Commentaries on the Gallic War. Translated 
into English by T. Rice Holmes, Litt.B. With map, 12mo, 
pp. 297. Macmillan Co. $1.40 net. 

The Complete Poetical Works of James Thomson. Edited 
by J. Logie Robertson, M.A. With portrait, 12mo. pp. 515. 
"Oxford Edition." Oxford University Press. 75 cts. net 

The Novels and Tales of Henry James. New York Edition. 
New vols. : Lady Barbarina, The Siege of London, etc. ; The 
Reverberator, Madame de Mauves, etc. Each with frontis- 
piece in photogravure, 12mo. Charles Scribner's Sons. 
(Sold only in complete sets.) 

North and South. By Elizabeth Gaskell, with Introduction 
by Clement Shorter. 16mo, pp. 528. "World's Classics." 
London: Henry Frowde. 

FICTION. 
Tono-Bun8:ay. By H. G. Wells. 12mo, pp. 460. Buffield & 

Co. $1.50. 
Septimus. By William J. Locke. Illus., 12mo, pp. 315. John 

Lane C!o. $1.50. 
Catherine's Child. By Mrs. Henry de la Pasture. 12mo, 

PP..394. E. P. Button & Co. $1.20 net.i -» 
The Fashionable Adventures of Joshua Craigr. By Bavid 

Graham Phillips. Illus., 12mo, pp. 365. B. Appleton & Co. $1.50. 
Fifty-Four-Forty or Fig:ht. By Emerson Hough. Illus., 

12mo, pp. 402. Bobbs-Merrill Co. $1.50. 
Open House. By Juliet Wilbor Tompkins. With frontispiece 

in color, 12mo, pp. 276. Baker & Taylor Co. $1.50. 
Banzai I By Parabellum. Illus., 12mo. Baker & Taylor Co. $1.60. 
The Three Miss Graemes. By S. Macnaughtan. 12mo, 

pp. 340. E. P. Button & Co. $1.50. 
Dreaming: River. By Barr Moses. 16mo, pp. 262. Frederick 

A. Stokes Co. $1. 
The Jesuit. By Felicia Buttz Clark. 12mo. pp. 282. New York : 

Eaton & Mains. $1.25. 
Philo's Daug:hter : The Story of the Baughter of the Thief 

with Whom Christ was Crucified. By Nellie G. Robinson. 

12mo, pp. 287. Cincinnati: Jennings & Graham. $1. 

TRAVEL AND DESCRIPTION. 

Notes of a Botanist on the Amazon and Andes : Being 
Records of Travel on the Amazon and Its Tributaries, and 
to the Cataracts of the Orinoco, during the Years 1849-1864. 
By Richard Spruce, Ph.B. ; edited and condensed by Alfred 
Russel Wallace. In 2 vols., illus. in photogravure, etc., 8vo. 
Macmillan Co. $6.50 net. 

The Shores of the Adriatic : The Austrian Side. By F. 
Hamilton Jackson, R.B.A. Illus., large 8vo, pp. 420. B. P. 
Button & Co. $6. net. 

Days Spent on a Doge's Farm. By Margaret Symonds (Mrs. 
W. W. Vaughan). New edition, with new preface and new 
illustrations ; 8vo, pp. 288. Century Co. $2.50 net. 
(Continued on next page) 



IMPORTANT BOOKS FOR EVERY 
AMERICAN LIBRARY 



MEMORIALS OF THE 
COUNTIES OF ENGLAND 

General Editor, REV. P. H. BITCHFIBLB, M.A., F.S.A., 
F.R.Hist.S., F.R.S.L. 

Each volume is edited by some well-known Antiquary and 
Historian, and contains special articles contributed by eminent 
writers connected with the County, and is beautifully illus- 
trated. Bemy 8vo, cloth extra, gilt top. Price $3.75 each, net. 

Volumes for EIGHTEEN COUNTIES have already been 
issued, and others are in active preparation. 

" Messrs. Bemrose's famous Series of books dealing with the 
archaeology of English Counties. Printing, illustrations, and 
matter leave nothing to be desired." — Daily Graphic. 

OLD ENGLISH SILVER 
AND SHEFFIELD PLATE 

(The Values of) 
FROM THE FIFTEENTH to the NINETEENTH CENTURIES 

By J. W. CALBICOTT. Edited by J. Starkie Gardner, P.S.A. 
3,000 Selected Sale Auction Records; 1,600 Separate Valua- 
tions; 600 Articles. Illustrated with eighty-seven Collotype 
Plates. 300 pp., royal 4to, buckram. Price $10.50 net. 

" A most comprehensive and abundantly illustrated volume. 

. . . Enables the most inexperienced to form a fair opinion of 

the value of a single article or a collection." — Daily Teleyraph 

Full particulars may be obtained from 

any Bookseller, or direct from 

BEMROSE & SONS, Ltd., PUBLISHERS 

LONDON, ENGLAND 



OF INTEREST 
to LIBRARIANS 



T T rE are now handling a larger per- 
* ^ centage of orders from Public 
Libraries, School and College 
Libraries, than any other dealer in 
the entire country. This is because 
our book stock, covering all classes 
and grades of books, is more com- 
plete than that of any other book- 
seller in the United States, enabling 
us to make full and prompt ship- 
ments. Also, because we have a well 
equipped department looking after 
this special branch of the business. 

A. C. McCLURG & CO. 

LIBRARY DEPARTMENT CHICAGO 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



93 



LIST OF NEW BOOKS — continued 
BELIQIOX AND THEOLOGY. 

The Uystlcal Element of Beligrion : As Studied in Saint 
Catherine of Genoa and her Friends. By Baron Friederich 
von Hiigel. In 2 vols., illus. in photogravure, 8vo. E. P. 
Button & Co. $6. net. 

The Works of Theodore Parker. Centenary edition. New 
vols. : The Transient and Permanent in Christianity ; Ser- 
mons of Religion ; Historic Americans. Each 12mo. American 
Unitarian Association. Per vol., $1. net. 

Anaehn's Theory of the Atonement : The Bohlen Lectures, 
1908. By George Cadwalader Foley, D.D. 12mo, pp. 327. 
Longmans, Green, & Co. $1.50 net. 

A Little Lower than the Angrels. By Charles H. Parkhurst, 
D.D. 12mo, pp. 287. F. H. Revell Co. 11.25 net. 

BOOKS OF REFERENCE. 

Who's Who, 1909: An Annual Biographical Dictionary. 
Sixty-first edition ; 12mo, pp. 2112. Macmillan Co. |2.50 net. 

Handy Reference Atlas of the World. Edited by J. G. 
Bartholomew, F.R.S.F. Eighth edition ; 12mo. E. P. Dutton 
& Co. $2.50 net. 

Ouide to the Study and Use of Reference Sooks. By Alice 
Bertha Kroeger. Second edition, revised and enlarged ; 8vo, 
pp. 145. Boston : American Library Association Publishing 
Board. $1.60 net. 

SCIENCE. 

The Development of the Chick : An Introduction to Embry- 
ology. By Frank R. Lillie. Illus., 8vo, pp. 472. Henry Holt 
& Co. $4. net. 

Physiological and Medical Observations among the In- 
dians of Southwestern United States and Northern Mexico. 
By Al^s Hrdlicka. Illus., 8vo. Smithsonian Institution, 
Bureau of American Ethnology, Bulletin 34. Washington : 
Government Printing OfBce. 

ART AND MUSIC. 

Drawings of Watteau. By Octave Uzanne. Illus. in tint, 
8vo. " Drawings of the Great Masters." Charles Scribner's 
Sons. $2.50 net. 

The Musician's Library. New vols. : Larger Piano Compo- 
sitions of Edvard Grieg, edited by Bertha Feiring Tapper ; 
Fifty Songs by Edvard Grieg, edited for high voice by Henry 
T. Finck. Each 4to. Boston: Oliver Ditson Co. Per voL, 
$2.50 net. 

BOOKS FOR THE YOUNG. 

In Captivity in the Pacific : or. In the Land of the Breadfruit 

Tree, ty Edwin J. Houston. Illus., 12mo, pp. 422. Griffith 

& Rowland Press. $1.25. 
A Flat Iron for a Farthing ; or. Some Passages in the Life of 

an Only Son. By Juliana Horatio Ewing; illus in color by 

M.V. Wheelhouse. 12mo,pp.235. "Queen's Treasure Series." 

Macmillan Co. $1. 
The Life of Abraham Lincoln for Boys and Girls. By Charles 

W. Moores. Illus., 16mo, pp. 132. "Riverside Literature 

Series." Houghton Mifflin Co. 25 cts. net. 

EDUCATION. 
Modern Methods for Teachers. By Charles C. Boyer. 12mo, 

pp. 345. J. B. Lippincott Co. 
Addresses and Proceedings of the National Education 

Association, Cleveland, Ohio, 1908. Large 8vo, pp. 1251. 

Winona, Minn. : National Education Association. 
Report of the Commissioner of Education, 1907. Vol. II., 

8vo. pp. 1214. Washington : Government Printing Office. 
Standards in Education, with Some Consideration of Their 

Relation to Industrial Training. By Arthur Henry Chamber- 
lain. 12mo, pp. 265. American Book Co. $1. net. 
Reading in Public Schools. By Thomas H. Briggs and Lotus 

D. Coffman. l2mo, pp. 274. Chicago: Row, Peterson & Co, 
Plant Physiology : A Laboratory Course. By William f! 

Ganong, Ph.D. Second edition, enlarged ; illus., 8vo, pp. 266. 

Henry Holt & Co. $1.75 net. 
Pens6es et Reflexions de La BruySre et Autres Auteurs 

Francais. Compiled by Cornelia Sisson Crowther. 16mo, 

pp.146. New York: William R.Jenkins Co. $1. net. 
Modem German Prose : A Reader for Advanced Classes. 

Compiled and Annotated by A. B. Nichols. 12mo, pp.296. 

Henry Holt & Co. $1. net. 
Standard Algebra. By William J. Milne. 12mo, pp. 464. 

American Book Co. $1. 

(Continued on next page) 



Professor George Herbert Palmer {Harvard) to President William 
DeWitt Hyde (Bowdoin) on the latter'' s new book. 

Self- Measurement 

(IN THE ART OF UFE SERIES) 

" I have just finished your great book— for great it is, in spite 
of its few pages. How Ingenious the plan ! How sure and close 
the observation ! How skillful the avoidance of monotony through 
the necessary iterations ! And what a searching of the heart it 
will bring and clearer understanding to its many readers ! Where 
•Ise can so much valuable knowledge of life be found in am equal 
number of pages ? And whUe it deals with ancient themes, it ap- 
proaches them as freshly as if they had never been touched before. " 



At bookstores, 50 cents net ; postpaid 55 cents. 

B. W. HUEBSCH PUBLISHER NEW YORK 



ADMINISTRATOR'S SALE 
AT AUCTION 

VALUABLE PRIVATE LIBRARY 

Late Dr. W. A. TOPE, Downers Grove 

AT OUR STORES, 187 WABASH AVE. 

February 8, 9 and 10. 1:30 P. M. Each Day. 

Rare Americana Indians 

Biography History Travels 

Medicine and Miscellaneous 

A Catalogue of unusual interest. 



J. W. TOPE, M.D., Oak Park, Administrator. 

Catalogues can be had on application. 

WILLIAMS, BARKER & SEVERN CO. 
185-187 Wabash Ave., Chicago 



OUR LIBRARY SERVICE 

\I/E have recently supplemented our service to Libraries, by 
" V procuring Out-of-Print and Scarce Booka, and by importing 
English books. 

Our EDUCATIONAL CATALOGUE contains a fuU list 

of Supplementary Reading, indicating the grade to which each 

title is adapted. 

Our CLEARANCE CATALOGUE contains overstock at 

: special prices, and an alphabetical arrangement by authors of all 

I cheap editions of Recent Popular Fiction and Standard Library 

12mos in one list. 
! Our LI BRAR Y CATALOGU E of 3500 approved titles, fol- 
j lowing A. L. A. lines, is of great convenience to small Ubraries. 
j Our MONTHLY BULLETIN notices promptly every new 
' book of importance. 
These Catalogues are sent on request. Three notable features of 
our service are : promptness, thoroughness, and low prices. 

THE BAKER & TAYLOR CO. 

WHOLESAiB DEALERS IN THE BOOKS OF ALL PUBLISHERS 

33 East Seventeenth Street, New York 



94 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 1, 



LIST OF NEW BOOKS— continued 

MISCELIiANEOUS. 
The liinooln Centennial Hedal. 12nio, pp.70. G.P.Putnam's 

Sons. $5. net. 
The Doll Book. By Laura B. Starr. lUus. in color, etc.. 8vo, 

pp. 239. Outing Publishing Co. $3. net. 
Artificial and Natnral Flight. By Sir Hiram S. Maxim. 

Illus., 12mo, pp. 166. Macmillan Co. $1.75 net. 
Roses and Hose Qrowing. By Kose G. Kingsley. Illus. in 

color, etc., 8vo, pp. 160. Macmillan Co. |2. net. 
Trail Dust : A Little Round-up of Western Verse. By Daniel 

S. Ricbardson. 12mo, pp. 92. San Francisco: A. M. Robert- 
son. $1.25. 
Fads and Feeding. By C. Stanford Read, M.B. 12mo, pp. 163. 

E. P. Dutton & Co. $1. net. 



THE 

Mosher 
Books 

The only collec- 
tion of genu- 
ine hand-made 
paper hooks at 
popular prices 
in Jimerica. 



THE 

MOSHER BOOKS 

CATALOGUE 



My New Catalogue covering 
every title I have published, 
1891-1908 inclusive, is now 
ready, and will be mailed free 
on request. It is without ques- 
tion a bibelot in itself and as 
choice a production as I can 
hope to offer. 

Thomas B.MosHER 

PORTLAND, MAINE 



FOR ANY BOOK ON EARTH write to H. M. TIMBY. 

Book Hunter. Catalogues free. Ist Nat. Bank Bldg., Conneaut, O. 



p A PP and unusual BOOKS on South America, 
*V'^*^*-« Texas, Mexico, West Indies, etc. 

LATIN-AMERICA BOOK COMPANY. 
Catalogue on application. 203 Front St., Nbw York City. 



M AGGS BROS. London, W. C, England 

Dealers in Rare Books, Prints, and Autographs 

Voyages and Travels. Early Printed Books. Illuminated 
MSS. First Editions. Sporting and Coloured Plate Books. 
General Literature. 

Also Fine Portraits and Fancy Subjects (chiefly Eighteenth 
Century). Early Engravings by the Old Masters. Modern 
Etchings by Whistler and others. 

Autograph Letters and MSS. of great Historic and Literary 

interest. 

Classified Catalogues post free on application. 

Customers^ "desiderata" searched for and reported 

free of charge. 

Noah Webster Leaflets 

Two new leaflets in the Old South 
series are of special interest at this time. 
One is on The Reform of Spelling, the 
other on The History of the United 
States. 

Price, 5c. each ; $4.00 per 100. 



SEND FOR LISTS TO THE 

DIRECTORS OF OLD SOUTH WORK 

Old South Meeting House, Washing^ton St., Boston 



JAMES D. BRUNER'S 

HUGO'S DRAMATIC 
CHARACTERS 

" Able Hugo criticism." — Courier-Journal. 
" Deeply interesting literary criticism." — The Dial. 
" A fine specimen of literary criticism of the inductive 
type." — The Outlook. 

GINN & COMPANY. PUBLISHERS 



The Study-Guide Series 

FOR USE IN HIGH SCHOOLS: The Study of FourldylU 
— college entrance requirements. The study of I vanhoe. Send for 
new descriptive circular and special price for class use. 
FOR USE IN COLLEGE CLASSES AND STUDY 
CLUBS: Studies of the Historical Plays of Shakespeare; The 
Study of Historical Fiction; The Study of Idylls of the King 
(arranged for critical study ). New descriptive circular. 

Single copies, each, 50 cents. Send /or new price list. 
Address H. A. DAvmsoN, The Study-Guide Series, Cambridge, Mass. 



UIIIIIAIl D ICIII^IIIQ nn Publishers, Booksellers, 
WILLIAM Hi JlNMIIO UUi stationers, and Printers 
861-863 SIXTH AVE., Cor. 48th St.. NEW YORK 

FRENCH 



AND OTHKB 
FOBEiaK 

BOOKS 

Complete cata- 
logs on request. 



BEAD CUB 

ROMANS CHOISIS. 26 Titles. Paper 
60 cts., cloth 85 cts. per volume. CONTES 
CHOISIS. 24 Titles. Paper 25 cts., cloth 
40 cts. per volume. Masterpieces, pure, by weU- 
known authors. Read extensively by classes; 
notes in English. List on application. 



I TYPEWRITE 
MANUSCRIPTS 



Reasonable Rates 6509 Greenwood Ave. 

Expert Work CHICAGO 

MYRTLE GOODFELLOW Tel. HP 6507 



MANUSCRIPTS 
TYPEWRITTEN 



EXPERT SERVICE 

MODERATE FEES 
L. E. Swarti, 526 Newport, Chicago 



THE NEW YORK BUREAU OF REVISION 

Established in 1880. LETTERS OF CRITICISM. EXPERT 
REVISION OF MSS. Advice as to publication. Address 
DR. TITUS M. COAN, 70 FIFTH AVE.. NEW YORK CITY 

"TOe 9pemolr0 of a jfailute" 

WITH AN ACCOUNT OF THE MAN AND HIS MANUSCRIPT. 
By DANIEL W. KITTREDGE. Cloth. $1.25 net. 

U. P. JAMES, Bookseller, Cincinnati. 

F. M. HOIiliY 

Authors' and Publishers' Representative 
Circulars sent upon request. 156 Fifth Avenue, Nbw York. 



Rnni^C ALL OUT- OP- PRINT BOOKS SUPPLIED. 
Dvlvf IVS. no matter on what subject. Write us. We can get 
you any book ever published. Please state wants. Catalogue fsoe. 
BAKER'S GREAT BOOK SHOP, 14-16 Bright St., Bibmihoham, Bh«. 

PRIVATE LIBRARY ^OR SALE 

Rare and Valuable Books in Science, Mechanics. Literature, 
Shakespeareana. Prices low. Send for cataloKue. 

JOHN C. PHIN, Patbbson, N. J. 



SCARCE AND FINE BOOK CATALOGUE 

Issued monthly and mailed free on request. Always interest- 
ing. Prices Lowest. Send for one. JOSEPH McDONOUGHCX). 
(Established 1870.) 98 State Street. Albany. N.Y. 



"HUMPHRY CLINKER" FREE! We will send you, compli- 
mentary, Smollett's rare novel, cloth bound, all charges paid. Broadly 
humorous; Thackeray called it "most laughable story ever written." 
Ask price at bookstore, then send only $1. for a year's subscription to 
the Pathfinder — the bright weekly national review, and get book free. 
PATHFINDER PUBLISHING CO., Washington, D. C. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



96 



AN INDISPENSABLE BOOK FOR EYERY READER 



Come of the most notable things which distinguished 
*^ writers of the nineteenth century have said in praise of 
books and by way of advice as to what books to read are 
here reprinted. Every line has something golden in it. — 
Neiv Tork Times Saturday Revieiv. 

A NY one of the ten authors represented would be a safe 
■**■ guide, to the extent of the ground that he covers ; but 
the whole ten must include very nearly everything that can 
judiciously be said in regard to the use of hooks.— Hartford 
Courant. 

"THE editor shows rare wisdom and good sense in his selec- 
tions, which are uniformly helpful. — Boston Transcript. 

'T'HERE is so much wisdom, so much inspiration, so much 
* that is practical and profitable for every reader in these 
pages, that if the literary impulse were as strong in us as the 
religious impulse is in some people we would scatter this 
little volume broadcast as a tract. — Nenu Tork Commercial 
Ad'vertiser. 



Words of good coun- 
sel ON THE CHOICE AND 
USE OF BOOKS, SELECTED 
FROM TEN FAMOUS 
AUTHORS OF THE I9TH 
CENTURY. 

I 

Beautifully Printed 

AT THE 

Merrymount Press 

Red cloth^ gilt top^ uncut, 

80 cts. net. 
Half calf or half morocco, 

$2.00 net. 



A. C. McCLURG & CO., PUBLISHERS, CHICAGO 



OOOK publishers and book journals are 
•'-' alike sustained by a book public. The 
people who read book journals are the ones 
who buy books. Daily papers and miscel- 
laneous journals have miscellaneous read- 
ers, some of whom are bookish people. All 
the readers of a book journal are bookish 
people. The Dial is preeminently a book 
journal, published solely in the interests 
of the book class, — the literary and culti- 
vated class. 



T^HE DIAL is more generally consulted 
*- and depended upon by Libbarians in 
making up orders for books than any 
other American critical journal; it circu- 
lates more widely among retail book- 
sellers than any other journal of its class ; 
it is the accustomed literary guide and aid 
of thousands of private book-buters, 
covering every section of the country. 



You can preserve your current 
numbers of The Dial at a trifl- 
ing cost with the 



P 



ERFECT 

AMPHLET 
RESERVER 



An improved form of binder 
holding one number or a vol- 
ume as firmly as the leaves of a 
book. Simple in operation, and 
looks like a book on the shelf. 

Substantially made, 
with "The Dial" 
stamped on the back. 

Sent, postpaid, for 

25 CENTS 

The Dial Company, Chicago 



96 THE DIAL. [Feb. 1,1909. 

NEW BOOKS FOR THE REFERENCE ROOM 

N. L. BRITTON'S NORTH AMERICAN TREES 

By the Director in Chief of the New York Botanical Garden, author of "A Manual of Flora of Northern States and Canada." etc. 
775 illustrations. 8vo, $7.00 net. C American Nature Series J 

"This splendid hooli." — The Dial. 

" The most complete description of the trees of North America that we have seen." — JVew York Sun. 

W. A. LOCY'S BIOLOGY AND ITS MAKERS 

By the Professor of Biology In Northwestern University. 123 illustrations. 8vo. $2.75 net. 

" Entertainingly written, and, better than any other existing single work in any language, gives the layman a clear idea of 
the scope and development of the broad science of biology." — The Dial. 

HENRY E. KREHBIEL'S CHAPTERS OF OPERA 

A vivid and human book by the well-known critic of the New York Tribune. 7 chapters on Early Opera in New York, 15 on the 
Metropolitan's Quarter Century, and 2 (40 pages) on Hammerstein's seasons. Index of 31 pages. With 70 illustrations. 13.50 net. 
" Most complete and authoritative . . . preeminently the man to write the book . . . full of the spirit of discerning criti- 
cism. . . . He writes in a delightfully engaging manner, with humor, allusiveness, and an abundance of the personal note." 
— RicHABD Aldbich in New York Times Review. (Complete notice on application.) 

C. W. COLBY'S CANADIAN TYPES OF THE OLD REGIME 

By the Professor of History in M'Gill University. Illustrated. $2.75 net. 

" In its general conception and method, in the facility and success with which the author is able to interpret the history of 
New France by reference to what was going on beyond the seas, and in his suggestive analysis of the motives which guided men 
and dictated movements, the volume gives us much that is new. In the field of Canadian history it is the most readable 
book that has appeared for many a day." — W. B. Munro in American Historical Review. 

DEWEY AND TUFTS'S ETHICS 

By John Dewey, Professor in Columbia University, and James H. Tufts, Professor in The University of Chicago. 618 pages 
8vo. (American Science Series). |2 .00 postpaid. 

" It is a scholarly and stimulating production. Indeed, from no other book would a general reader obtain in so brief a 
compass so wide a view of the moral work of to-day, set forth in so positive, lucid, and interesting a fashion. Twenty years 
ago the book could not have been written, for into it have gone the spoils of all the ethical battles of our time."— Q. H. 
Palmer, Professor in Harvard University. 

R. S. HOLLAND'S THE BUILDERS OF UNITED ITALY 

Historical biographies of Alfieri, Manzoni, Gioberti, Manin, Mazzini, Oavour, Garibaldi, and Victor Emmanuel. With 
portraits. $2.00 net. 

" Popular, but not flimsy. The general reader can hardly fail to be so stimulated that he will go to seek a wider 
acquaintance with this fascinating period. ... A pleasant talent for narration." — The Nation. 

RENE BAZIN'S THE ITALIANS OF TO-DAY 

By the author of " The Nun," etc. Translated by Marchant. $1.25 net. 

"A most readable book. He touches upon everything." — Boston Transcript. 

FOR THE CHILDRENS ROOM 

MRS. C. W. RANKIN'S THE ADOPTING OF ROSA MARIE 

A SEQUEL TO " DANDELION COTTAGE." Illustrated by Mrs. Shinn. |1.50. 

" Those who have read ' Dandelion Cottage ' will need no urging to follow further the adventures of the young cottagers. . . . 
A lovable group of four real children, happily not perfect, but full of girlish plans and pranks." — Boston Transcript. 

MISS MARY W. PLUMMER'S ROY AND RAY IN CANADA 

By the Director of the Pratt Institute Library School, and author of "Roy and Ray in Mexico." With map, Canadian 
National songs with music, and illustrated from photographs. $1.75 net. 

" Canadian history, manners, and customs are not very well known to the average American child, so that this volume, 
with its fine illustrations and comprehensive descriptions, is of much value." — Springfield Republican. 

VERNON L. KELLOGG'S INSECT STORIES 

By the author of " American Insects," etc. Illustrated. $1.50 ?!et. (American Nature Series.) 

"The stories are certainly delightful and already I have made many new friends for the little book. I am sure it will meet 
with success as it should." — Bertha Chapman, of the University of Chicago. 

JOSEPH B. AMES'S PETE COWPUNCHER 

By the author of " The Treasure of the Canyon." Illustrated by Victor Perabd. $1.50. 
" Wholesomelyexciting . . . stands for real manliness." — Christian Register. 

MISS ALICE C. HAINES'S THE LUCK OF THE DUDLEY GRAHAMS 

Illustrated by Francis Day. $1.50. 

" Among the very best books for young folks. Appeals especially to girls."— Wisconsin List for Township 
Libraries. 

HENRY HOLT & COMP ANY 'A^^^S^fVIv 

the dial press, fine ABTS building, CHICAGO 




THE DIAL 

J! SEMI-MONTHLY JOURNAL OF 



Edited BY \Volume XLVI. r^jj^f^KCirx Xr"T?T» 1« 1 QHO io c<«. o copi/./ Pink Abts Building 

FRANCIS F. BROWNE. 



\Volume XLVI. ntTTnArT^ TTTTTi 1ft 1 QftQ io c<«. o copi/. f Pink Abts Buildin< 

;/ N0.5U. 0±liCA(jU, i^iLtJ. lb, lyUy. #2. a vear. I 203 Michigan Blvd. 



IMPORTANT NEW BOOKS 



THE FAITH OF A MODERN PROTESTANT 

By Professor WILHELM BOUSSET 75 cents net ; postpaid, 80 cents 

In this vivid and interesting: book Professor Bousset seeks to show what faith in God means for men of the twentieth 
century, how it is to be related to science and history, and what its consequences should be in the life of the believer. 
Particularly interesting are his discussions of the problems of prayer and providence. 

THE PSYCHOLOGICAL PHENOMENA OF CHRISTIANITY 

By GEORGE BARTON CUTTEN, Ph.D. $2.50 net; postpaid, $2.75 

" All the fundamental questions connected with psychology and religion are treated in this volume, and they are treated 
with great intellectual force and earnestness. It will take front rank in the recent psychological and religious productions." 

— The Examiner 

MODERNISM By paul sabatier $1.25 net 

" He furnishes some interesting details as to this movement, and throws a little light on the separation of Church and 
State in France. His definition of Modernism is admirable." — The Outlook. 

THE GREEK AND EASTERN CHURCHES 

By WALTER F. ADENEY, D.D. $2.50 net; postpaid, $2.75 

A new volume in the International Theological Library. 
" Dr. Adeney has untwisted the tangle into an orderly and coherent story. He continues it into modern times, showing the 
development of the Russian, the Armenian, the Syrian, and other Eastern churches to the present day, and he also gives an 
account of the Coptic and Abyssinian churches. To do all this in a single volume of moderate size implies great condensa- 
tion ; but, by treating essentials fully and passing over minor matters, the author manages to tell the whole story and to 
make it entertaining." — New York Sun. 

THE CHURCHES AND THE WAGE EARNERS "" ^'""S thdr'^leSmfiom'' "^'^ 

By C. BERTRAND THOMPSON $1.00 net; postpaid, $1.10 

This is the first comprehensive account of the existing relations of the working classes to the different religious organiza- 
tions. An able presentation of the problem and a suggestive remedy for present conditions. 

A WORKING THEOLOGY 

By ALEXANDER MacCOLL 75 cents net; postpaid, 80 cents 

A condensed statement of those principles of the Christian religion which have stood the test of time and controversy and 
which form a strong working basis for everyday life. 

HISTORY OF CONTEMPORARY CIVILIZATION 

By CHARLES SEIGNOBOS $1.25 net 

" The History of the Eighteenth and Nineteenth Centuries," written on the same lines and with the same success as "The 
History of Ancient Civilization " and " The History of Mediaeval Civilization," by the same author. His method as well as 
his style is marked by perfect clearness, effective arrangement, concision of statement, and great literary charm. No other 
history presents this period in so convenient and practical and at the same time interesting way. This volume completes 
his great series, " The History of Civilization." 

NOW READY THE LATEST AND BEST 

DICTIONARY OF THE BIBLE 

COMPLETE IN ONE VOLUME. Edited by JAMES HASTINGS, D.D. 

This work represents the best modern scholarship and is free from speculative theories. It is the most valuable contribution 
in one volume to the understanding of the Bible. It is a masterpiece of biblical literature and will be indispensable to Bible 
students, ministers, Sunday-school superintendents, and teachers. It contains a wealth of information about the Bible 
which cannot be had elsewhere except in works covering many volumes. It is more than a dictionary. It is a treasury of 
Scriptural biography, archaeology, ethnology, and natural history. It will be for many years to come the standard Diction- 
ary of the Bible in one volume. No other work can compare with it for completeness, reliability, and authoritativeness. 
Full descriptive circular and specimen pages will be sent free on request. 

Oyer One Thousand Pages. Bound In cloth. Price, $5.00 net. 



CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS 153 FIFTH AVENUE NEW YORK 



98 



THE DIAL 



[Feb". 16, 



OPEN HOUSE 

By JULIET WILBOR TOMPKINS 

Author of "Dr. Ellen" 

€I.Caspar Diman, a physician who 
loves his fellow-man, keeps ' ' Open 
House" for the waifs and strays 
of fortune, and in a simple human 
way gives them aid and comfort. 
To this shelter, after the suicide 
of her father, comes Cassandra 
Joyce, a proud girl, spoiled by soci- 
ety, wilful, but in the main kind- 
hearted. The advent of Cassandra 
causes strange and humorous hap- 
penings. Miss Tompkins has con- 
ceived a story of which the appeal 
is so sure and true as to give the 
story certain popularity. 

FRONTISPIECE BY F. GRAHAM COOTES 
$1.50 



THE BAKER & TAYLOR CO. 

33=37 EAST I7th STREET, NEW YORK 




B©©KS 




LATE PUBLICATIONS 

OVR NEW TESTAIHKBfT: HOW Din WE OET IT? 

By Rev. Henry C. Vedder, D. D. Price, 91.00 net, postpaid. 
THE CHRIiSTIASr STATE. By Samuel Zane Batten, 

D. D. Price, 91.50 net ; postage extra. 
SAXE EVASr«EI.ISiini. By W. Wistar Hamilton, D. D. 

Price, 75 cents net, postpaid. 

THE iSlJNDAY-NCHOOI. TEACHER'S SCHOOIi. By 

Revs. H. T. Musselman and H. E. Tralle. Book IV in 
"The National Teacher-Training Institute Text-Books." 
Price, boards, cloth back, 40 cents net, postpaid ; paper, 
25 cents net, postpaid. 

FREMH WrATER FR09I OI.I> WEIiliS. By Rev. Rob- 
ert G. Seymour, D. D. Price, 80 centn net, postpaid. 

HOW TO OROW ISr THE CHRISTIAN 1.IFE; or, 
WEI.I.S BY THE IV AY. By Rev. W. Wistar Hamilton, 
D. D. Vest-pocket edition. Price, paper cover, 10 cents; 
leather, 35 cents. 

THE FORWARD MOYEMEUrT HYMUr AI.. Price, 15 
cents net per copy ; postage, 4 cents extra ; 915.00 per 
hundred ; express extra. 

STEWARDSHIP AND 9IISSIONS. By Rev. C. A. Cook, 
D. D. Price, cloth, 50 cents net ; paper, 35 cents net ; 
postage, 8 cents extra. 

IN CAPTIVITY IN THE PACIFIC. By Edvein J. 
Houston, Ph. D. Vol. Ill in " The Pacific Series." Price, 
91.25. 



ORDEB FROM THK NKAREST HOtTSE 

PHILADELPHIA 

THE GRIFFITH & ROWLAND PRESS 



BottOD 



New York Chicago St. Louis Atlanta 



Dalla* 



A LIBRARY IN ONE BOOK 




WEBSTER'S 

INTERNATIONAL 

DICTIONARY 

Betides the English vocabolary, which answers 
correctljr qnestions on spelling, pronunciation, defini- 
tion, new words, etc., the work contains a Gazetteer 
giving the latest information about places, mountains, 
rivers, also a Biographical Dictionary which answers 
questions concerning noted men and women. Many 
other questions arise about noted names in fiction. 
Scripture, Greek, Latin, and English Christian names, 
foreign words and phrases, flags, state seals, etc. 
The International answers them all. 2380 Paget, 
5000 Illustrations. The work 
is abreast of the times. Final 
authority for the United 
States Supreme Court. 

Wkbstbr's Collegiate 
Dictionary. Largest of 
ourabrid^ments. iii6 Pages. 
1400 Illustrations. 



Write tor " Dictionary 
Wrinkles," and Specimen 
Pages, FREE. Mention in 
your request this magnzine 
and receive a useful set of 
Colored Maps, pocket size. 
Make sure that the "Webster 
Dictionary you purchase is of 
the genuine series and bears 
on its title-page the name, — 

G.&C.MERRIAMCO. 
Springfield, Mass. 




Literature and the 
American College 

ESSAYS IN DEFENSE OF THE 
HUMANITIES 

By IRVING BABBITT 

" Now and then out of a mass of books on educational 
topics — ' words, words, words,' — there emerges a volume 
of real value and epoch-making significance. Such is Pro- 
fessor Babbitt's discussion of the problem confronting the 
teachers of ancient and modern literature in American 
colleges. It is noteworthy for its insight, its good sense, 
its courage, and withal its wide philosophical perspective." 
— South Atlantic Quarterly. 

" In the murky state of the educational atmosphere 
Professor Irving Babbitt's ' Literature and the American 
College ' comes like a stroke of clear lightning. For 
cutting satire nothing equal to this arraignment has been 
produced since Lowell's day. And it not only sets forth 
the evil of the present system of instruction, but points 
the way constructively to a wholesome reform." — The 
Independent. 

" To all scholarly persons the volume will be interest- 
ing, but to the graduate at large it will be much more than 
that. If he absorbs and understands its message, the 
reading of it may rank as an experience." — Yale Alumni 
fFeekly. 

$1.25 net. Postpaid, $1.36. 

Boston Houghton Mifflin Company New York 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



99 



FEBRUARY FICTION 



The Actress 



By LOUISE CLOSSER HALE 

It is by the actress herself — this story of a New York grirl who first gives up her sweetheart for the stage. The fun and 
the tears of stage life — the real, not the scandal, kind — reveal the actress as an original, frank, humorous, likeable girl. 
The man is a prosperous, level-headed business man who knows just what the feminine " artistic temperament" really 
needs — common sense and protection. Naturally he hasn't much sympathy with the " career." 

But the girl is determined to be a great artiste, and, putting the sweetheart aside But the actress tells her 

heart-story better than anyone else can. Pictorial Cover. Illustrated. Post 8vo. Cloth. $1.60. 

The Gorgeous Borgia By justin huntly mccarthy 

This is a story of the tyrant Csesar Borgia, the terror of Rome in the fifteenth century, who turned happiness into 
misery, song into groans, life into death for the sake of the cruelty that was in him. He was as " beautiful as a tiger, 
and as bright and strong as a tiger, and truly as cruel as a tiger." Here he plays the " love game " in disguise, finding an 
unsuspecting Roman girl who is beautiful as a pagan and innocent as a saint, first murdering his brother, the Duke of 
Gandia. The girl, in her ignorant beauty, adores him. Herself of the rival house of Orsini, she is elected to slay the 
tyrant, not dreaming that he is her lover. The story is riotous with the mad character of Roman life in this period. 

Pictorial Wrapper in Colors. Post 8vo. Cloth. $1.60. 



Mad Barbara 



By WARWICK DEEPING 



By far the most exciting story that Mr. Deeping has written — a tale of love and lawlessness of the patch-and- 
powder days of Charles II. 

" Mad Barbara" is the daughter of a woman whose lover, a courtly man of the world, a friend of the family, has 
murdered Barbara's father. A series of suspicious incidents give Barbara a clew to the murderer. She is a source of 
danger to the two who share the guilty secret. Then comes the lover, Stephen Gore's son. Captain John Gore — a 
downright soldierly fellow. A true and tender romance springs up between the two. After that the story becomes wild 
with adventure to the very end. lUustrated. Post 8vo. Cloth. $1.60. 



The Spell 



By WILLIAM DANA ORCUTT 



Here is a young wife who struggles against the passionate fear that her husband is happier in the companionship of 
another woman — and who loves and protects the other woman ! A handsome young dreamer is the husband, wrapped 
up in his scholar's passion for the past, adoring his beautiful " society girl " wife, but finding a mysterious, sweet com- 
panionship in her friend, whose intellect flashes back to his. As these two work together in an old library, the pretty 
wife makes up her mind that her husband prefers her friend. And when you read the story you learn whether or not this 
is true — the wife sympathizing with the other woman's hopeless love, the other woman refusing to betray her. The wife's 
frank offer to her husband to give him up brings on a climax which sets " The Spell " altogether apart from most novels 



of married life. 



Illustrated. Post 8vo. $1.60. 



Xincoln and the Sleeping Sentinel 

By LUCIUS E. CHITTENDEN 

" Lincoln's heart was as tender as ever beat in a human breast," Mr. Chittenden writes. In this volume the 
authentic account of an historic incident is presented by one who took an actual part, now for the first time in a separate 



volume. 



With Colored Prontlspiece. 16mo. Cloth. 60 cezits net. 



Reminiscences of Abraham Lincoln 

REVISED EDITION 

By the Distinguished Men of His Time 

It is the personal Lincoln who lives before us in these pages. With the passage of time actual recollections of 
Lincoln acquire a superlative value. There are the recollections of lawyers who rode the circuit with Lincoln in Illinois 
and listened to his tales before the fires of wayside taverns. There are descriptions of his early political campaigns; 
vivid pictures of Lincoln the President, Lincoln in the dark days of the Civil War, Lincoln at Gettysburg, and Lincoln the 



friend of the soldiers. 



Cloth, Octavo. $2.00 net. 



Sir Walter Raleigh 

By FREDERICK A. OBER 

The many romantic episodes in the life of Sir Walter 
Raleigh are graphically set forth in this volume by Mr. 
Ober. In addition, the complete narrative of his life is 
told simply and accurately. Every effort has been made 
to sift truth from legend in telling the story of this heroic 
figure in the early history of America. "Heroes of 
American History " Series. 

Illustrated. 12mo. Cloth. $1.00 net. 



Thirty Strange Stories 

and 

The War of the Worlds 

Two Books by H. G. WELLS 

The demand for these two books by Mr. Wells has been 
so continuous and comes from so many different quarters 
that reprinting them has been made a necessity. Both 
" Thirty Strange Stories " and " The War of the Worlds " 
can now be had immediately. 

Each, Post 8vo. Cloth. $1.60. 



HARPER & BROTHERS PUBLISHERS NEW YORK 



100 THE DIAL. [Feb. 16, 1909. 



Important New Macmillan Books 



NOW READY 

The Assassination of Abraham Lincoln and its Expiation 

By David Miller DeWitt authorof** The Impeachment and Trial of President Johnson" 

Cloth, 8V0, library gilt, 295 pages. $2.25net; by mail, $2.39. 

Eden PhillpottsU new novel The Three Brothers 

The new novel by the author of " Children of the Mist," " The Secret Woman." Cloth, Umo. $1.60. 

Lord Avebury's new book Peace and Happiness 

Eighteen chapters which discuss many subjects of universal interest with the shrewd and kindly wisdom that in 
The Pleasure! of Life and other works have proved helpful and stimulating to so many readers. 

Cloth, 12m,o. $1.60 net; by mail, $1.60. 

Mr. Percy MacKaye's Lincoln: Centenary Ode 

By the author of "The Canterbury Pilgrims," "Sappho and Phaon," etc. In its dignity, sincerity, and noble 
simplicity it is a tribute to Lincoln not to be missed. Cloth, decorated. 75 cents net; by mail, 83 cents. 

The Straw a new novel by Rina Ramsay 

An exciting story, ending with a dramatic climax and alive throughout with all the swing and freshness of good 
sport in an English hunting county. Cloth, 12mo. $1.50. 

H. Fielding HalFs new novel One Immortality 

The author of " The Soul of a People " has an ideal of marriage as lofty as it is unusual, and has also the gift of 
combining an interesting love story with a restful charm which is distinctly of the East. Cloth, Itmo. $1.60. 

Artificial Waterways and Commercial Development 
By A. Barton Hepburn, LL.D. 

Author of " The Contest for Sound Money." A convincing argument for cheap transportation. 

Cloth, 12mo. 115 pages, with index. $1.00 net; by mail, $1.06, 

By Dr. Solomon Schechter President of the Jewish Theological Seminary 
Some Aspects of Rabbinic Theology 

The book will prove important historically although the author disclaims attempting a task so great as the 
writing of a history of Jewish theology. Cloth, Svo, S8i pages. $2.25 net; by mail, $2.39. 

The Man-Eaters of Tsavo 

By Colonel J. H. Patterson 

A remarkably thrilling true account of a running fight between railroad builders and man-eating lion's. 

New Edition. Cloth. Illustrated. $1.7 5 net; by mail, $1.92. 

The Acropolis of Athens 

By Martin L. D'Ooge, University of Michigan 

A book to be noted by classical students as ranking with the late Professor Seymour's " Life in the Homeric Age." 

Fully illustrated. Cloth, Svo. $U.00 net; by mail, $i.2S. 

J. B. Bury's The Ancient Greek Historians 

Harvard Lectures which amount to a survey of Greek historiography down to the first century b. o. 

Cloth, Svo. 281 pages. With bibliography. $2.26 net; by mail, $2. UO. 

Mr. Percival LowelFs interesting book Mars as the Abode of Life 

Professor Lowell presents his theory of planetary life in as simple and understandable a form as possible. It has 
never been successfully attacked, and his presentation of it in lectures before the Lowell Institute ranked as one 
of the most popular courses in years. Cloth, Svo. $2.60 net; by mail, $2.70. 

By Dr. Henry C. King, President of Oberlin College 
The Laws of Friendship Human and Divine 

By the author of " Rational Living," " Reconstruction in Theology," etc. Cloth, ISmo. Probably $1.00 net. 

The Cyclopedia of American Agriculture 

Edited by L. H. Bailey, of Cornell University, editor of "Cyclopedia of American Horticulture," chairman of the 
Commission on Country Life, is completed by the issue of the fourth volume, soon to appear. 

I. Farms, Climates, Soils, etc. III. Farm Animals, Farm Products 

II. Farm Crops (individuaUy in detaU) IV. The Farm and the Community 

Complete in four ito volumes. The set $20.00 in cloth ; half morocco, $32.00. Send for a prospectus. 



PUBLISHED jj^g MACMILLAN COMPANY Vi^""^^^'-' 



THE DIAL 

a Skemi'Mon^l'g. 3oumaI a! Hittrarg Crittcigm, M&caamn, uriti Infottnatfon. 



THE DIAL Cfounded in 1880) is published on the 1st and IGth oj 
each month. Terms of Scbscbiption, 82. a year in advance, postagr 
prepaid in the United Stales, and Mexico; Foreign and Canadian 
postage 50 cents per year extra. Remittances should be by check, or 
by express or posted order, payable to THE DIAL COMPANY. 
Unless otherwise ordered, subscriptions will begin with the current 
number. When no direct request to discontinue at expiration of sub- 
scription is received, it is assumed that a continuance of the subscription 
is desired. Advebtising Rates furnished on application. All com- 
munications should be addressed to 

THE DIAL, Fine Arts Building, Chicago. 

Entered as Second-Class Matter October 8, 1892, at the Post Office 
at Chicago, Illinois, under Act of March 3, 1879. 



No. 544- 



FEBRUARY 16, 1909. Vol. XLVl. 



Contents. 

PAGB 

LINCOLN 101 

EDGAR ALLAN POE: A CENTENARY OUT- 
LOOK. Warren Barton Blake 103 

CASUAL COMMENT 105 

The weighing and measuring of genius. — The 
fascinating problem of the origin of language. — A 
library on wheels. — An early portrait of Chaucer. 
— The next lecturer before the Alliance Frangaise. 
— Sweetness and light in the reading-room. — Litter 
and literature. — The progress of spelling-reform. 
— Dr. Osier as chief speaker at the coming library 
dedication. — A useful Lincoln bibliography. 

COMMUNICATIONS 108 

Tennyson and "The Quarterly Review." Albert 

H. Tolman. 
The Carnegie Institution and Literature. S. Weir 

Mitchell. 
Another Literary Seedsman. Charles Welsh. 

REMINISCENCES OF A NOTED WOMAN. George 

Robert Sparks 108 

SIR SPENCER WALPOLE AS HISTORIAN. 

Ephraim D. Adams 110 

THE STORY OF HERCULANEUM. G. J. Laing . 112 

LETTERS OF THE WIFE OF A GREAT POLIT- 
ICAL LEADER. W. H. Johnson 114 

BRIEFS ON NEW BOOKS 11.5 

Essays by Thackeray's daughter. — Short studies 
in medical biography. — The building of a great 
State in the Northwest. — Some simple annals of 
the poor. — Dolls and doll-lore. — A colleague's 
tribute to Carla Wenckebach. — Backward glances 
of a veteran educator. — A fascinating page of 
Greek history. — A history of the Philippines. — 
A Lincoln centennial souvenir. 

NOTES 118 

LIST OF NEW BOOKS 119 



LINCOLN. 



Nearly forty-four years have passed since that 
"startled April morning " when the word went 
forth from Washington that our great President 
was no more. For close upon half a century he 
has been numbered among the small company 
of immortals who " sit with their peers above 
the talk," and the fitness of the words, " Now 
he belongs to the ages," spoken by Stanton in 
the hushed chamber when the assassin's victim 
had drawn his last breath, are now perhaps just 
beginning to be realized. This centennial year 
of Lincoln's birth has rightly been singled out 
to signalize his achievements, and still more to 
emphasize the value of the example offered by 
his life and character. The record of his words 
and deeds has long been, and will long remain, 
one of the chief springs upon which our national 
idealism is fed ; and purer waters never flowed 
into the current of a people's life. 

Those of us whose lives overlapped his, 
whether we ever saw him in the flesh or not, 
have a sense of personal possession in which the 
younger generation cannot share. Even if we 
have nothing more than childish recollections of 
the tragic day of his death, of the awed silence 
that surrounded us when the tidings came, and 
of the grief that might be expressed in sobs but 
not in words, we have a memory that has grown 
precious as it has become chastened, and that 
makes Lincoln in very truth a part of our own 
lives. No one can ever quite efface from con- 
sciousness the very real distinction between past 
and present, between the world which we may 
know from books alone, and the world upon 
which our own eyes and ears have been opened. 
To all Americans who have roimded the half- 
century cape there exists to-day a Lincoln 
essentially although perhaps indefinably differ- 
ent from the Lincoln known to those born since 
the year of Appomattox. And as long as such 
Americans shall survive, it will be their sacred 
obligation to do what they may to keep vital 
an image which is fast receding into the ghostly 
realm of legend. 

For it is quite clear that mythopoetic forces 
are already busied with the deeds and the char- 
acteristics of the Emanipator, and that the man 
is fast becoming invested with the attributes of 



102 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 16, 



the tutelary hero and the demigod. The trans- 
formation is inevitable, and idealism becomes 
the gainer from it by so much as reality suffers 
loss. Every age has thus dealt with the com- 
manding figures of the past which have been 
singled out as its exemplars. It has been so 
with Caesar and Charlemagne, with Dante and 
Milton. The characters of these men, and of 
countless others of similarly resounding fame, 
is figured in our modern consciousness under a 
guise that would have seemed strange indeed to 
their contemporaries. So with Lincoln, the new 
generation is already coming to view him in a 
light very different from that in which he stood 
revealed in the days of the nation's fiery trial. 
The figure of a hero thus recreated by the 
idealizing instinct of a whole people takes on 
outlines that bear little relation to the man in 
his habit as he lived ; it reveals, however, with 
unerring certainty the image of what we would 
fain believe him to have been. The figure 
which was in process of reconstruction from the 
time of Lowell's ode and Whitman's threnody 
to the time of the statue by Saint-Gaudens, and 
which is being still more definitely shaped in 
this centennial year, is far more the expression 
of our ideal than it is of our memory, and it 
speaks well for the national character in the 
twentieth century that this ideal is so pure 
and wholesome and altogether worthy of our 
devotion. 

" What a piece of work is a man ! " What 
a bewildering complex of acts and moods and 
impulses and compromises with existence is any 
given individual, and what insight it requires 
to disengage the essentials of a character from 
its many confusing accidents ! Perhaps, after 
all, we may come to have clearer knowledge of 
a man when his muddy vesture of decay has 
been cast aside, and time has withdrawn us far 
from his presence. Do we see the real Lincoln 
when we read of the country store-keeper, the 
itinerant lawyer, the petty politician, and the 
retailer of coarsely humorous anecdote, or do 
we first really know him when he speaks to us 
in the Inaugurals and the Gettysburg address ? 
lu biography as in history there are many de- 
grees of reality, ranging from the lower to the 
higher levels, and the sound instinct — par- 
ticularly the collective instinct — learns in time 
to discriminate between these various orders of 
fact, to care little for what is merely trivial and 
commonplace, to discern the shining life of the 
spirit as a thing apart from the didl life shaped 
by material environment. We are still making 
too much of the lower realities of Lincoln's life 



in this memorial season, but time will rectify 
that miscalculation, and fix our thought more 
and more f idly upon the things which are worthy 
of immortal remembrance. 

The celebration whose echoes are stUl ringing 
in our ears has had, like all similar outpourings 
of feeling, the defects of its qualities. There 
has been a good deal of splurge about it, a good 
deal of the perfunctory or insincere, a good deal 
of empty parade and display of self-seeking. 
How much of it has been genuine reverence 
and how much lip-service it would be hard to 
say ; the admixture of the two elements has 
been obvious enough, although we may not be 
able to state the proportions. But on the 
whole, the demonstration has made for good. 
It has doubtless been the occasion of some soul- 
searching on the part of men and women, and 
of much seed-sowing in the minds of the young. 
To what moral disaster the nation has in recent 
years forsaken Lincoln's teachings and departed 
from the example of his life must have been 
brought home to those who have renewed the 
study of his career, and out of all this multitude 
there surely will be some, perhaps there will be 
many, who will " highly resolve " that he shall 
not have lived and died in vain, and that the 
" new birth of freedom " which he helped to 
give the nation shall be reaffirmed in deed no 
less than in word. His political principles, 
now cynically flouted in the high places of our 
government, and his ideals of social obligation, 
now made a mockery by predatory and selfish 
wealth, would soon become controlling influ- 
ences in our national life if we really meant 
one-half of what we have been saying during the 
past week. If our words had purpose behind 
them, in any sort of proportion to their vehem- 
ence and volume, the day of regeneration would 
be now at hand. 

Once more our thoughts go back to that 
spring day " when lilacs last in the door-yard 
bloomed," when there was given 

" To death's own sightless-seeming eyes a light 
Clearer, to death's bare bones a verier might, 
Than shines or strikes from any man that lives." 

On the last Sunday of his life, Lincoln had 
read aloud, and, after a pause, repeated these 
lines from " Macbeth": 

" Duncan is in his grave ; 
After life's fitful fever he sleeps well; 
Treason has done his worst: nor steel, nor poison, 
Malice domestic, foreign levy, nothing 
Can touch him further." 

A few days later, treason's worst had been done 
upon him also, and the apotheosis proclaimed 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



103 



by Stanton's words haxi become his portion. 
There is a sense in which we may be glad that 
death came to him at sueh a time and in such 
a manner. His life and death were thus given 
a unity which appeals to the artist in us ; they 
seem to constitute a tragedy of faultless design. 
Lincoln would have served his country wisely 
had he been spared, but perhaps we may say 
that fate, through the agency of the assassin's 
weapon, made him the instrument of a better 
and more enduring service by bestowing upon 
his career that supreme consecration. No words 
can be fully adequate to express the significance 
of such an end as was Lincoln's, but music is 
always ready to aid us when words fail, and the 
sublime strains of " Death and Transfiguration " 
completely interpret for us that transition from 
life to death, or, as the mystics of all ages have 
it, from illusion to reality, from death-in-life to 
life itself, true and everlasting. 



EDGAR ALLAN POE : A CENTENARY 
O UTLOO K. 

I. 
"The real Poe," writes his latest biographer, "is 
a simple, intelligible, and, if one may dare say it, 
a rather insignificant man. To make a hero or a 
villain of him is to write fiction." And yet to have 
to waU, 

" Romance beside his unstrung lute lies stricken dead," 
abandoning the legend so long cherished, — this 
seems too numbing to our sensibilities. Happy the 
suburbs of sound criticism, where he who mourned 
Lenore, and told of murders in a Paris street, and 
brought the gooseflesh to young limbs and old with 
Ligeia's eeriness and Morella's ghost, is still the 
Poe who died in hospital after a wild Byronic life, 
adventurous and perverted ; the Poe, in fine, for 
whom 

" The sickness, the nausea, 
The pitiless pain, 
Have ceased, with the fever 
That maddened my brain, 
With the fever called ' Living ' 
That burned in my brain, — " 

since now a new and unfamiliar figure has stalked 
stiff and unasked into our company : a Poe who 
overworked at book-reviews, and whose worst vice 
would seem to be a weakness for " superior women." 
Surely, " we have sold our birthright for a mess of 
facts ! " As Thomas Wentworth Higginson put it 
long ago : " If Poe fared ill at the hands of his enemy, 
he has fared worse, on the whole, at those of his 
friends." For, without failing to establish, with a 
different emphasis, most of the unpleasant facts 
recorded but only half-proved by the " perfidious " 



Griswold, his later biographers have raised him to 
a demi-respectability too nearly bourgeois to be 
poetic, — have deprived him, then, of the compan- 
ionship of Heine and Musset and Byron, for which 
he was a candidate. The first man of letters to 
romanticize his strange unhappy life was Poe him- 
self. It was he who recounted adventures that 
were never his, in countries that he never visited — 
in France, in Greece, in Russia even. Taking the 
cue, his French biographers have hailed in Poe the 
poete-nSvrosS, the ffSnie morhide ; Germans have 
ascribed his productivity to alcoholic epilepsy or to 
paranoia ; but now we needs must read : " The 
warmth of Bohemia, boulevard mirth, however 
stimulating to other mad bards of New York and 
Philadelphia, never fetched a song from him." And 
it is true ! Poe was less a drunkard than we — 
comforted by the thought that a New England con- 
science mates not with dark eyes " in a fine frenzy 
rolling," consoled by our utter respectability for our 
want of genius — have fondly made him out ; and 
in so far as he was ever drunkard, his craving came 
from lust of Lethe, or from the insistence of a 
decadent organism. If alcohol but made Poe ill, 
then it is clear that here was a poet as dreary in 
his vice as the rest were in their virtue. 

Perhaps there is a moral profit in our seeing the 
poet stripped of all illusion, — great in spite of his 
weakness, and not on its account. And yet the 
letting in of daylight on the dark places of a Rous- 
seau's career, or of a Poe's, seems almost as grievous 
an offence against aesthetics as the absurdities of 
pseudo-scientific criticism. The romance spun around 
Chatterton or our American has been the poesy of 
those who take their poesy in prose. " I 've an idea," 
wrote Aldrich to Stedman, " that if Poe had been 
an exemplary, conventional, tax-oppressed citizen, 
like Longfellow, his few poems, striking as they are, 
would not have made so great a stir." Cheap as is 
the quality of fame springing from sentimentalism, 
if it has brought the heedless crowd under a poet's 
spell it may be better than truth itself. If one can- 
not throw the white veil over the passions of a 
Rousseau in France, a Hearn or a Poe in America, 
let us ignore the life and look but to the fine achieve- 
ment. More than once has genius stood distinct from 
moral greatness, — though we may hold, with Lowell, 
that all great geniuses have that greatness too. It 
is an unimportant question, here ; for Poe, whatever 
the personality, was a great artist. There need have 
been no sullying of his memory, or hovering over 
those last and painful years. " He was never the 
same again," wrote the gentle Mitchell who has just 
left us, of the Poe who had lost his Virginia. '•' We 
have hardly a right to regard what he did after 
this — whether in the way of writing, of love-making, 
or of business projects — as the work of a wholly 
responsible creature. It were perhaps better if the 
story of it all had never been told." 

Without his finishing touch of dying in the garret, 
Chatterton would never have come so near to being 



104 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 16, 



read by a generation as late and antipathetic as our 
own. Without his vagabondage, de Nerval might 
by this time be forgotten. But Poe needs nothing of 
this histrionic glamor ; and so it matters little how 
he died — or lived. New England critics have always 
seemed a little overweighted by their own sublimity 
in writing of this man ; but if, as Lowell says, he 
was " three-fifths of him genius and two-fifths sheer 
fudge," we are grateful that the genius in his com- 
position gave to the world, along with those poems 
that have won the popular admiration, others less 
obvious but more beautiful, — " To Helen," and 
" Annabel Lee," and even " Ulalume," with tales that 
prove Poe, too, cognizant of " that element which, 
for want of a better name, we call character" — 
the "William Wilson" or "The Tell-tale Heart." 



It is upon the tales that present emphasis is placed ; 
and among them " William Wilson " with its doppel- 
gdnger, " Valdemar " and " Mesmeric Revelations " 
with their hypnotism, " Ragged Mountain " with its 
hypnotism and metempsychosis mingled in one dis- 
turbing whole, have made almost as wide a stir and 
an even deeper impression than the cruder tales of 
horror, like "The Black Cat," or the stories of 
what their author called "ratiocination." Thus it 
is strange, to say the least, that in what must be 
regarded as the standard memoir of Poe, that by 
Professor Woodberry in the "American Men of 
Letters " series, no mention is made of him who, 
before Poe, most consistently made use of these 
devices — hypnotism habitually, and auto-duplication 
until Brandes writes of him, "To Hoffmann, the 
Ego is simply a disguise worn on the top of another 
disguise, and he amuses himself by peeling off these 
disguises one by one." In Hoffmann's diary one 
may read : " Possessed by thoughts of death and 
doppelgdnger. . . . Seized by a strange fancy at 
the ball on the sixth, — imagined myself looking 
at my Ego through a kaleidoscope, — all the forms 
moving round me are Egos, and annoy me by what 
they do and leave undone. . . . Why do I think 
so much, sleeping and waking, about madness?" 
Though there is no proof that Poe, who shared these 
thoughts of multiple Ego and of madness, ever read 
"The Devil's Elixir," or Hoffmann's other tales, 
the " phantasy-pieces " whose name he gave to his 
own excursions in the same weird field, it is certain 
enough that he knew them indirectly through the 
work of Scott and others, — quite as he professed 
to know the tales of Tieck, whom he hailed as 
Hawthorne's master. And there is no difficulty in 
exaggerating the debt of Poe and Hawthorne to the 
Germans, whose fiction remained Gothic, whUe that 
of the Americans struck a new note — not national 
so much as universal. As Poe said, " If in many 
of my productions terror has been the thesis, I 
maintain that terror is not of Germany, but of the 
soul." It is not merely in the deeper simplicity, the 
higher art, of our own story-tellers, that they differ 
from their German models — if models they ever 



found in the Hoffmanns and Tiecks and Novalis. In 
this very circumstance that their terror is of the soul, 
and not of Germany, we may find the secret of their 
freshness and power to-day. The disposition to 
regard Poe as a " Germanic dreamer," however 
natural to continental criticism, seems to the nearer 
witness totally mistaken. As was pointed out in 
Poe's own lifetime, while occupying that dim land 
stretching from the outer limits of the probable into 
the " weird confines of superstition and unreality," 
he combined qualities that are seldom united ; " a 
power of influencing the mind of the reader by the 
impalpable shadows of mystery, and a minuteness 
of detail which does not leave a pin or a button 
unnoticed." There is, in " The Facts in the Case of 
M. Valdemar," that blending of science and romance 
which makes us shiver in reading it to-day, when 
Tieck has become to us exciting only to the risibili- 
ties, and Hoffmann but a weaver of idle fantasies. 

" The breeze, the breath of God, is still, 
And the mist upon the hill 
Shadowy, shadowy, yet unbroken. 
Is a symbol and a token ; 
How it hangs upon the trees, 
A mystery of mysteries ! " 

So in the work of Hearn, in our own generation, is 
there a blending of the mystic and the tangible — 
the matter-of-fact, almost — which moves us as true 
ghostliness, when ghastliness would not suffice. 

III. 
To-day we praise Poe as the true inventor of a 
class of fiction variously estimated and everywhere 
enjoyed. The writer himself belittled his tales of 
ratiocination, and complained that they should ever 
have had more vogue than what we hold with him 
his greater achievement. But for the crowd which 
sees in the poet only the writer of " The Raven " 
and " The Bells," he will ever be, in prose fiction, 
the writer of " The Murders in the Rue Morgue," 
" The Purloined Letter," and « The Gold-Bug." It 
is on this side that he is most easily followed by less 
gifted craftsmen ; and if " an entire literature " has 
been founded upon " The Raven," it is no less 
remarkable that, although Poe was the initiator of 
a new genre in these tales, he has never been im- 
proved upon. In the elegant phrase of Professor 
Brander Matthews, Poe " rang the bell the very first 
time he took aim." If, as this critic of the " short- 
story " has pointed out, Poe's tale differs from older 
tales of terror, seeking to interest us not in the 
horrors of a mystery but in the steps taken to untie 
a knotty problem, it is no less true that it differs 
from its developments in the hands of modern prac- 
titioners. We have the word of Sherlock Holmes's 
most clever manufacturer, that while his own crea- 
tion is bloodless and mechanical, Poe's figures are 
neither mere automata nor beings " fantastically 
inhuman," and that " one story by Edgar Allan Poe 
would be worth a dozen " such as his. If Poe's 
tales are too strange not to be true, perhaps the par- 
adox of Oscar Wilde is not without its meaning, — 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



105 



perhaps literature does sometimes anticipate, not 
copy, life, and mould it to its purposes : life the 
mirror, art the reality. 

Poe himself might have enunciated some such 
mad doctrine. Literature was his religion, said his 
employer, Graham, — paraphrased by an ungentle 
essayist who has said, "In the place of moral 
feeling, he had the artistic conscience." Surely, 
he had both : and therein lurked a world of woe. 
In this early epoch of our literature was marked 
the passage from superstition over into a shadowy 
symbolism, most properly vague ; the allegory was 
here more used by Hawthorne, but Poe used it too — 
and with a perfect artistry. There are, to be sure, 
tales which we ignore. In the exigencies of a hand- 
to-mouth existence, Poe wrote his arabesques, — 
his "Omelettes" and his "Spectacles," — such as 
a kindly editor leaves out when he collects the fic- 
tion. It is in an absence of humor — and, alas ! 
an apparent ignorance that the humor is lacking — 
that Poe is most deficient when we compare him 
with the man of Salem. Yet what a record is 
his for the short life he had, and the difficulties 
he faced ! " It was he," writes a foreign critic, 
"who opened up, in his 'Hans Pfaal,' the way of 
the scientific novel ; he who invented the detective 
story with the ' Rue Morgue,' and the novel of spirit- 
ism with his stories of Bedloe and M. Valdemar." 
And there remains his verse. 

Incidentally mentioned here, that passing notice 
shall suffice. It is the poetry which least needs 
explanation, — and its body is so small, its perfection 
at its best so unmistakable, there is no need to recapit- 
\ilate either the monstrous praises or the petty blame 
which it has oft evoked. " Once as yet," in Swinburne's 
well-remembered word, " once as yet, and only once, 
has there sounded out of it all [all America] one pure 
note of original song — worth singing, and echoed 
from the singing of no other man; a note of song 
neither wide nor deep, but utterly true, rich, clear, 
and native to the singer." Let that estimate stand. 
And while it would be grateful to linger over one's 
favorites in the slender volume of Poe's poetry, and 
to discuss his theory, real and pretended, in things 
poetical and critical, all has been said in these hun- 
dred years which have elapsed since his birth there 
in Boston — chUd of the stage. His mysterious 
death, sixty years ago, is but the slightest of the bonds 
between him and the one name that precedes his on 
the roll of American poets. There was a premoni- 
tion of Poe's coming, when the poet of our Revolution, 
Philip Freneau, composed his " House of Night " : 

" Trembling I write my dream, and recollect 
A fearful vision at the midnight hour ; 
So late, Death o'er me spread his sable wings, 
Painted with fancies of malignant power. 

" Let others draw from smiling skies their theme, 
And tell of climes that boast unfading light ; 
I draw a darker scene, replete with gloom, 
I sing the horrors of the House of Night." 

Warren Barton Blake. 



CASUAL COMMENT. 



The weighing and measuring of genius is 
not often attempted, and is sure to be found a 
baffling undertaking. Nevertheless Dr. Frederic 
Lyman Wells has had the zeal and persistence to 
carry through "A Statistical Study of Literary 
Merit "; for thus he entitles his account of certain 
minute and marvellous investigations of the peculiar 
properties of ten leading American authors. The 
English Graduate Club of Columbia University aided 
him in his work, and the results are printed by the 
Science Press as number seven in the series known 
as "Archives of Psychology." Far be it from a 
non-statistician to decry the virtues of statistics. 
In the first half of the nineteenth century the great 
French physician Louis mightily advanced the 
science of medicine by the statistical or numerical 
study of diseases ; and the value of statistics in vari- 
ous other departments of science is indisputable. 
But to fit the strait jacket of statistical tabulation 
on the gloriously unfettered form of artistic or lit- 
erary genius is even worse than yoking Pegasus 
to the plough. Mr. Wells's pages are packed with 
numbers and letters, with arbitrary markings and 
abbreviations, with tables and headache-generating 
disquisitions thereon. To some it may be illumi- 
nating to learn that the p. e. (probable error ? ) in this 
sort of assaying is capable of mathematical expres- 
sion in the form of a fraction whose numerator is 
.845 A. D., and whose denominator is the square 
root of w — 1. But to us the best thing in the whole 
learned treatise is this : " It is a not uncommon 
observation that we often form judgments for which 
we cannot give satisfactory reasons, and it is per- 
haps not less common to observe that these judg- 
ments are about as likely to be correct as those for 
which we can. To this empirical generalization the 
above figures seem to lend experimental support. 
We are more accurate in our opinions than in our 
reasons for them." . . . 

The fascinating problem of the origin of 
LANGUAGE will tease and baffle, delight and torment 
the curious philologist until the world shall come to 
an end and the heavens shall be rolled together as 
a scroll. A new and plausible and well-defended 
hypothesis is offered by Professor Fred Newton 
Scott in his late address as president of the Modern 
Language Association of America. Perhaps, how- 
ever, it would be dangerous to claim entire novelty 
for his tentative solution of the problem, since 
nothing whatever under the sun is entirely new. 
Be that as it may, he traces the " genesis of speech " 
to respiration. " If we consider," he says, in one sig- 
nificant passage of his address, " how intimately the 
most elementary phenomena of speech are related 
to the musculature of the thorax and diaphragm, we 
shall see some reason for suspecting that the life- 
serving movement from which speech has arisen 
is ordinary respiration. Such, at any rate, is the 
hypothesis which I shall adopt. Speech, in its in- 



106 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 16, 



ception, is significantly modified breathing. Just 
as gesture arose from movements of the hand in 
obtaining food or warding off enemies, so speech 
arose from the movements of the muscles of the 
thorax and diaphragm in obtaining a fresh supply 
of oxygen and in rejecting the harmful products of 
physiological combustion." Just how exactly Pro- 
fessor Scott's further elaborated and extremely inter- 
esting explanation of the stages in speech-evolution 
fits the actual truth of the matter, no one will ever 
be able to determine; for no eye-witness, — no 
ear- witness rather, — can be summoned for cross- 
examination. His theory is at least an appreciable 
advance from the amusing tradition which arbi- 
trarily assigned such and such a language to Adam 
and Eve in Paradise, another to the serpent, and 
still another to the Lord. " The Genesis of Speech " 
is issued in pamphlet form by the Modern Language 
Association. ... 

A LIBRARY ON WHEELS, which has already sev- 
eral times attracted our attention and elicited our 
approving comment, may be seen by any interested 
visitor to the rural districts of Washington County, 
Maryland. Its librarian (librarian and coachman 
in one) fills a position that is probably unique. 
The " Seventh Annual Report " of the free library 
at Hagerstown, whence this Book Wagon starts out 
on its sixteen routes of travel, has this (among 
other things ) to say of its activities : " It far exceeds 
the travelling library or deposit station in its use- 
fulness, in that the personal element enters into the 
work. . . . Furthermore, the work of a Library in 
a community is never solely to supply known wants, 
but ever and always to be on the alert to create a 
demand. The gospel of books is like the gospel of 
eternal life for which the world has never hungered 
untU it has been brought to them by the zeal of 
its ministers." Other country districts might well 
adopt the Book Wagon, pending the provision of 
better library facilities. Indeed, why not equip and 
send forth a number of library railway cars to visit 
small railroad towns that have no public libraries? 
We have agricultural schools and roadmaking semi- 
naries, and even churches, rolling over the prairies 
on steel rails and doing an extensive missionary 
work. The library car ought to prove even more 
useful than the book wagon. 
... 

Ak early portrait of Chaucer, painted in oil 
on an oak panel, has been received by the Harvard 
University Library by bequest from the late Charles 
Eliot Norton, with the testator's request that it be 
inscribed as a memorial of two Chaucer-lovers, 
Francis James Child and James Russell Lowell. 
The back of the panel bears the following inscrip- 
tion : " This picture was presented by Miss Frances 
Lambert to Benjamin Dyke on the 16th of Sep- 
tember, 1803, to perpetuate the memory of her late 
invaluable relation, Thomas Stokes, Esq., of Llan- 
shaw Court, in the county of Gloucester, where it 
was preserved for more than three centuries, as 



appears from the inventory of pictures in the posses- 
sion of that ancient and respectable family." The 
earlier history of the portrait is unknown, but it bears 
a close resemblance to the only authentic likeness of 
the poet, the miniature in Occleve's " De Regimine 
Principum" (written in 1411-12). Professor Nor- 
ton received the panel portrait as a gift from Mr. 
James Loeb, who had bought it of Faixfax Murray. 
To learn through whose hands it had passed, from 
first to last, would not greatly profit us ; but the 
near resemblance of the picture to the face we already 
know so well as Chaucer's is significant. How much 
clearer is our mental image of the great fourteenth- 
century poet than of his still greater sixteenth-century 
compatriot, even though the latter is three hundred 
years nearer to us in time. We may have a truer 
likeness of Shakespeare than of Chaucer, but we are 
not certain which one of several portraits it is. In 
Chaucer's case, however, we are not confused by a 
number of widely differing possibilities. 
... 
The next lecturer before the Alliance 
Fran^aise is to be M. Marcel Poete, librarian of 
the Paris Institute of Municipal History, a writer 
and lecturer of repute, an antiquary of untiring re- 
search, and editor of the Bulletin published by the 
Library of the City of Paris. (That he is not also 
a poet, in keeping with his uncommon and striking 
family name, will hardly surprise anyone ; for libra- 
rianism and verse-making are weaknesses seldom 
united in the same person, although Chicago can 
boast of a poet-librarian, and a suburban library 
within sight of Beacon Hill is in charge of a maker 
of very acceptable and often delightfully humorous 
verse.) The published list of M. Porte's lectures 
in this country promises a rare treat. Among other 
attractive titles are these : " The Pont-Neuf, or the 
Life of the People in the Seventeenth Centmy," 
" The Fashionable Promenades of the Seventeenth 
Century," '' A Picture of Paris in the Time of the 
Revolution," "Madeleine-Bastille, or a Little History 
of the Grands Boulevards," " The Cries of Paris," 
" Artistic Influence : The Primitive Parisian Paint- 
ers," and "Paris in the Time of the Romanticists." 
Numerous and interesting lantern-slide illustrations 
will enliven the lectures, which promise to be every 
way worth while for those who have ever visited 
Paris, those who intend to visit Paris, and (most of 
all) those who despair of ever being able to visit 
Paris. . . . 

Sweetness and light in the reading-room — 
that is, a pure atmosphere and a sufficient natural 
or artificial illumination of the page under perusal — 
should be abundantly provided for in every public 
library. The peculiar smell that greets the wor- 
shipper in old churches, especially country churches, 
the smell that for so many ages was mistaken for the 
odor of sanctity, has its counterpart in the stuffiness 
and closeness of old libraries ; only there it is sup- 
posed to be the fragrance of erudition, the perfume 
from the flowers of poesy and from the various anthol- 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



107 



ogies and other specimens of literary efflorescence 
culled by careful hands from belletristic gardens. 
This indescribable "bouquet" has doubtless been 
unthinkingly taken by many as an essential and even 
highly desirable attribute of a well-appointed library. 
At any rate, we all know the shudder of horror that 
so often attests high displeasure when windows are 
opened and it is sought to replace a nineteenth (or 
eighteenth) century atmosphere with a twentieth- 
century one. But not all users of public libraries 
are enemies of light and air. A solicitation of public- 
library suggestions from the laity has been diligently 
conducted by Dr. Louis N. Wilson, librarian at Clark 
University, and among other more or less interesting 
and instructive complaints against the existing order 
are a number of protests against insufficient provision 
of light and air in some of our reading-rooms. Poor 
ventilation is far more prevalent than poor lighting. 
"As for ventilation," declares one respondent, "libra- 
ries do not know what the word means." Too many 
librarians are ignorant, in proportion to their book- 
learning, of the value and need of abundant oxygen. 

Litter and litebature seem to have more than 
an alliterative relation to each other. Looking at 
the working habits of writers, one is almost tempted 
to say, The more litter, the more literature, — although 
there are conspicuous exceptions. Walt Whitman's 
room in Camden was notoriously untidy. De 
Quincey's writing was done in various more or less 
obscure resorts, with no observance of method and 
order. The elder Dumas cannot be imagined as 
sitting at an immaculately tidy desk, with pens, 
paper, inkstand, paper-cutter, reference manuals, 
and so forth, all in their appointed places. On the 
other hand, Thackeray's exquisitely neat and legi- 
ble script suggests nothing so much as well-trimmed 
pens (goose-quills, of course) and a writing-desk in 
proper order. Lowell's study at Elmwood, too, was 
no wilderness of disorder. Walter Pater's rooms at 
Oxford were almost painfully self-conscious in their 
immaculateness. FitzGerald revelled in the chaotic 
and the haphazard. Scott and Shakespeare, we 
can imagine, wrote with piles of manuscript and 
other papers on either hand. In general, can we, 
even the most orderly of us, conceive of the frenzy 
of inspired composition as for a moment vexing it- 
self with considerations of symmetry and balance 
and geometrical regularity in the disposal of books 
and papers and other appurtenances of the study ? 

• • • 

The progress of spelling-reform, as marked 
by the successive lists of " Simplified Spellings " 
sent out from No. 1 Madison Avenue, New York, 
by the Simplified Spelling Board, is interesting, 
though necessarily a somewhat melancholy sight to 
those who cling to the old forms with all their cher- 
ished associations. Happily for the "old fogies," 
however, the new forms in all their shivering naked- 
ness of phonetic spelling are not very rapidly 
invading our current literature. The inevitable 



shock will be eased by this slowness of adoption, 
and it may well be (as, indeed, we hope it will be) 
that the familiar old spellings will, to all intents 
and purposes, last out our time. After us, the 
deluge of heterographic novelties may set in — if it 
must — but we hope to sleep untroubled in our graves. 
List number three of these " Simplified Spellings " 
has appeared. It embraces words having ea pro- 
nounced as short e, preterites and participles ending 
in -ed pronounced -d, words ending in unaccented 
-ice pronounced -is, and words ending in -ve ( after 
I or r) pronounced -v, — about two hundred and fifty 
in all. " In due course," we are informed, " the 
three lists will be printed in one alfabetic order, and 
used as a basis for more extensiv simplifications to 
appear in a larger list or Vocabulary of Simplified 
Spellings." . . . 

Dr. Osler as chief speaker at the coming 
LIBRARY DEDICATION, — the dedication, namely, of 
the fine Medical and Chirurgical Library building 
connected with the Johns Hopkins Hospital and 
expected to be finished this month and opened in 
May, — will be sure to draw a full audience. What- 
ever his subject, which will not fail to be appropriately 
serious, his address will be pointed with epigram 
and enlivened with apt allusion and anecdote. 
Another distinguished participant in the exercises 
will be Dr. S. Weir Mitchell. An unusual but not 
unattractive feature of the new library building will 
be a large room in the basement set apart for pur- 
poses of bodily refreshment and the repair of wasted 
tissues, — a dining room, that is, or banquet hall. 
Whether a kitchen also is to be provided in connec- 
tion with it, does not appear from the reports. The 
structure is expected to be one of the best of its kind 
in existence ; and if its visitors are to find food there 
for both brain and stomach, it will certainly be one 
of the most complete. The dedicatory exercises are 
announced for May 13, 14, 15, and will (one cannot 
but hope) be held in the large auditorium on its 
first floor, to be known as Osier Hall. 
• • • 

A USEFUL Lincoln bibliography, among the 
many such lists now appearing, is issued by the 
Chicago Public Library as " Special Bulletin No. 7." 
In its forty-two pages there must be a thousand titles 
or more, arranged under such headings as these : — 
Genealogy and Family History, Biography (divided 
into eleven sub-classes), Estimates of Character, 
Lincoln as a Lawyer, Lincoln as a Literary Man, 
Lincoln as an Orator, Religion of Abraham Lincoln, 
Lincoln and Temperance, Personal Appearance, 
etc. Books, periodicals, pamphlets, sermons, all sorts 
of printed matter have been consulted in preparing 
the bulletin, which is especially useful to Chicago 
readers as the works cited are all to be found in the 
Chicago Public Library. A bibliography of Lincoln 
bibliographies, all likewise in the Library, forms the 
opening section. The compilation shows care and 
industry, and is a work of permanent value. 



108 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 16, 



COMMUNICA TIONS. 



TENNYSON AND " THE QUARTERLY REVIEW." 
(To the Editor of The Dial.) 

I have just read in your issue of January 1 (p. 9) 
your comment upon the " lavish praise " bestowed by 
" The Quarterly Review " upon Tennyson's volume of 
1833 (really printed in 1832). I am surprised that you 
were not suspicious of a quotation which speaks of 
Tennyson as " another and a brighter star of that galaxy 
or milky way [ !] of poetry of which the lamented Keats 
was the harbinger." 

In Vol. I. of the Tennyson Memoir, Arthur Hallam 
speaks of the review now in question as " the infamous 
article " (p. 91); and Hallam Tennyson refers to it as 
"the sneering savage Quarterly attack" (p. 94). It 
was probably this review, more than anything else, 
which caused Tennyson to print almost nothing between 
the so-called volume of 1833 and the triumphant two 
volumes of 1842. Albert H. Tolman. 

University of Chicago, Feb. 5, 1909. 

[We might make the plea that the irony of our 
comment was stiU finer in its subtlety than the 
irony of the Quarterly Reviewer — too fine, in fact, 
to be discernible to the ordinary eye. But an 
unaccommodating frankness compels us to admit 
that though we were surprised and, in a subcon- 
scious way, uneasily suspicious, we allowed the frag- 
mentary quotation to slip through, in the press of 
other matters, without attaching the proper label. 
— Edr. The Dial.] 

THE CARNEGIE INSTITUTION AND LITERATURE. 
(To the Editor of The Dial.) 

In your recent review of " The Old Yellow Book " 
your critic failed to make plain that this costly volume 
was issued by the Carnegie Institution of Washington. 
The need to give this credit arises from the fact that 
this foundation has been much criticised for its failure 
to foster literature. Dr. Hodell's volume is our first 
venture in this direction. It will be followed by two 
volumes of Professor Sommers's rendering of the 
Arthurian legends from the MSS. of the British Mu- 
seum. The publication of Fliigel's great dictionary of 
Chaucerian English will begin shortly and will appear 
in numbers. 

How otherwise and further we can assist literature 
we have been imable to see. §_ Weir Mitchell 

of the Executive Committee of the 
Carnegie Institution of Washington. 

Philadelphia, Feb. 3, 1909. 

ANOTHER LITERARY SEEDSMAN. 
(To the Editor of The Dial.) 

The note in your issue of the 1st inst. about the 
Literarj' Seedsman of Marblehead reminds me of another 
Seedsman who flourished in Scotland in the latter half 
of the nineteenth century, Peter Drummoiid of Stirling, 
who combined the writing and printing of religious tracts 
with his business. He was not only a shrewd business 
man and a clever advertiser, but a bit of a wag as well, 
for he always placed with the imprint to his little tracts 
the quotation : " For the field is the World, and the seed 
is the Word of God." Charles Welsh. 

Winthrop, Mass., Feb. 6, 1909. 



%\t Jt^to ^00ks. 



Reminiscences of a Noted Woman.* 



In turning the pages of the Reminiscences of 
Lady Randolph Churchill, covering a period of 
nearly thirty years, the reader is confronted 
with such a multiplicity of persons, places, and 
events, as to be wellnigh bewildered. But they 
are presented in so entertaining a fashion that 
the task becomes a delightful one. It is a book 
that one may pick up and lay down, read and 
re-read. The author has a natural talent for 
seeing things, and a charming way of describing 
them. From the time of her debut, in the early 
seventies, into English political and social life, 
she has, by fortuitous circumstances as well as 
by a pleasing personality, made herself an influ- 
ential and powerful factor. As the young wife 
of a Cabinet minister, she discharged her duties 
with tact and delicacy. It was no easy matter, 
in the days of her early career, to overcome the 
resentment shown to Americanism ; but how 
cleverly Lady Randolph played her part is 
shown in these pages. " Thirty years ago," she 
remarks, " there were very few Americans in 
London. In England, as on the Continent, the 
American woman was looked upon as a strange 
and abnormal creature with habits and manners 
between a Red Indian and a Gaiety girl. Any- 
thing of an outlandish nature might be expected 
of her. If she talked, dressed and conducted 
herself as any well-bred woman should, much 
astonishment was invariably evinced, and she 
was usually saluted with the tactful remark, 
' I should never have thought that yoxi were 
an American,' which was intended as a compli- 
ment." 

One could quote indefinitely from these pages, 
as so many of the stories and hon mots related by 
Lady ChurchiUare worth repeating ; and they are 
given with an air of easy frankness which adds 
greatly to their charm. At Bayreuth she met 
Mrs. Sam Lewis, wife of the well-known money- 
lender ; an excellent musician, and a benefac- 
tress of many institutions. Mr. Lewis, unlike 
his wife, was not artistic. It is told of him that, 
having once made a fortnight's stay in Rome, 
he was asked how he liked it. " You can 'ave 
Rome," was his laconic answer. 

She met the Abbe Liszt at the Russian 
Embassy in London, when M. de Staal was 
Ambassador. " I sat next the great man, whose 
strong and characteristic face, so often deline- 

*The Reminiscences of Lady Randolph Churchill. Illus- 
trated. New York: The Century Co. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



109 



ated both by brush and chisel, seemed strangely 
familiar. He was so blind that he ate his 
asparagus by the wrong end, until I pointed out 
his error. ' Ah,' he exclaimed, — ' merci bien, 
il me semblait tout de meme que cela n'etait 
pas tres bon ! ' " 

On another occasion. Lady Randolph was on 
a visit to Queen Victoria, and tells the story of 
an officer, who, being on guard duty at the 
Castle, was asked to dine there. The whispered 
conversation and the stiffness of the proceed- 
ings beginning to weigh on him, he thought he 
would enliven the party with a little joke. The 
Queen, hearing smothered laughter, asked what 
it was about. Scarlet and stammering, the 
poor man had to repeat his little tale, amid dead 
silence. Fixing a cold eye upon him, " We are 
not amused," was all the Queen said. 

Owing to her husband's position as a Cabinet 
officer. Lady Randolph had many opportunities 
of meeting prominent people of both political 
parties. The years 1880-1884 were stirring 
ones, and, she says, " full of excitement and 
interest for me. Our house became the rendez- 
vous of all shades of politicians. . . . Sir Charles 
Dilke and Mr. Joseph Chamberlain came fre- 
quently. The Duke of Marlborough, my father- 
in-law, was particularly incensed, and took 
Randolph seriously to task for having had Mr. 
Chamberlain to dinner, ' a man who was a 
socialist, or not far from one ; who was reputed 
to have refused to drink the Queen's health 
when Mayor of Birmingham.' " It was a strange 
irony of fate that Mr. Chamberlain some years 
later became one of the leading figures in English 
parliamentary life, honored and feted by King 
Edward and his courtiers, and but for impaired 
health might probably still be one of the giants 
of the political arena. At that time the names 
of Gladstone, Salisbury, Hartington, Churchill, 
Harcourt, and Stafford Northcote, were those 
to be conjured with. Balfour was then com- 
paratively unknown. He and Sir John Gorst, 
with Sir Henry Drummond Wolff and Randolph 
Churchill, constituted what was known as the 
Fourth Party, and many a lively tilt was 
exchanged between those obstreperous gentle- 
men and the occupants of the Government 
benches. It is related that Mr. Gladstone con- 
fided to an intimate friend that he feared Lord 
Randolph Churchill in debate even more than 
Disraeli. Lady Randolph, in speaking of the 
banquet in honor of Lord Beaconsfield and Lord 
Salisbury on their return from the Berlin Con- 
ference, says that Disraeli, pointing with a scorn- 



ful finger at Mr. Gladstone, declared he was 
" inebriated with the exuberance of his own 
verbosity." We believe that it was at the 
House of Commons, and not at this banquet, 
that Disraeli made these memorable remarks, 
and that Gladstone later on retorted that it was 
"the hair-brained chatter of irresponsible fri- 
volity." 

Lord Randolph was just then at the zenith of 
his power, and much of his success may be 
attributed to his clever and vivacious wife. She 
assisted him in every possible manner, and was 
active on his behalf in public meetings and in 
canvassing for votes. In the autumn of 1883 
the Primrose League was formed, and Lady 
Randolph was enrolled as one of the dames. She 
spoke in Manchester just before the general elec- 
tion of 1886, and prophesied the downfall of 
Mr. Gladstone and the defeat of his famous 
Home Rule bill. Of this period she relates some 
amusing electioneering anecdotes. Being asked 
to help canvass for Mr. Burdett-Coutts, she was 
pleading with a wavering voter for his support. 
Waggishly and with a sly look, he said, " If I 
could get the same price as was once paid by the 
Duchess of Devonshire for a vote, I think that 
I could promise." " Thank you very much," 
Lady Randolph replied, " I '11 let the Baroness 
Burdett-Coutts know at once." 

Notwithstanding that Lord Randolph Chur- 
chill rapidly rose to the highest positions, first 
as Secretary of State for India, and afterwards 
as Chancellor of the Exchequer and Leader of 
the House of Commons, his downfall was equally 
sensational. It was a great surprise and shock 
to the country when he tendered his resignation 
to the Queen. To Lady Randolph Churchill 
it meant the destruction of all her hopes and 
plans. " He went into no explanation, and I 
felt too utterly crushed and miserable to ask 
for any, or even to remonstrate," she writes in 
her journal. It was claimed, at the time, that 
Lord Randolph disagreed with his colleagues on 
some question of expenditure. History may or 
may not be right in this respect ; but it is gen- 
erally believed that the state of his health, 
added to a naturally nervous temperament, was 
mainly responsible for his action. 

Lord Randolph Churchill was a fearless 
fighter in debate, and a thorn in the side of 
his opponents. The press was very bitter 
against him, the " Times " in particular attack- 
ing him on every occasion. One night, after a 
particularly poisonous leader had appeared in 
that paper. Lady Randolph met Mr. Buckle, 



110 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 16, 



the editor of the " Times," at a reception. 
Coming up, he half chaffingly asked her if 
she intended to speak to him, or if she was 
too angry. " Not a bit," she replied, " I 
have ten volumes of press-cuttings about Ran- 
dolph, all abusive. This will only be added to 
them." 

No record of Lady Churchill's Reminiscences 
would be complete without reference to the 
splendid work she accomplished in helping to fit 
out the hospital-ship " Maine " for service in the 
South African War. No stone was left unturned 
to procure money — much money, and it had to 
be all American money. " It would be useless," 
she says, " to deny the fact that the Boer War 
was viewed with disfavor by my countrymen. 
They had a fellow feeling for the Boers, fight- 
ing, as they thought, for their independence. 
But the plea of humanity overran their political 
opinions, and the fund once started, money 
poured in." As is often the case with char- 
itable appeals. Lady Randolph and her co- 
workers met with rebuffs, — notably in the case, 
as she tells, of an American multimillionaire to 
whom she cabled asking for a subscription for 
the hospital. He replied that he had " no 
knowledge of the scheme." The press by this 
time, in both countries, was full of the enter- 
prise. She cabled back, " Read the papers "; 
but this, alas ! did not untie the rich man's 
purse-strings. It may be asserted with perfect 
truth that Lady Randolph did more to estab- 
lish an entente cordlale, and to help cement a 
friendship between England and America, than 
could have been accomplished by any other 
means. 

Of her work in connection with " The Anglo- 
Saxon Review," we regret we cannot speak so 
highly. That she was ill-advised to enter into 
the undertaking, no doubt remains. She did 
all she could to make the " Review " a success, 
and her friends helped her con amove. Advice 
was readily forthcoming, but not the means. 
The reasons for the failure of the enterprise are 
not far to seek ; it is generally conceded that 
the subscription price, for one thing, was pro- 
hibitory. That the scheme as a whole savored 
of snobbishness is self-evident ; and Lady 
Randolph was shrewd enough to let go of it in 
time. 

This book is admirably illustrated and well 
made, but lacks an index. This is a great dis- 
advantage, especially as the author has an unfor- 
tunate habit of confusing dates and events. 

George Robert Sparks. 



Sir Spencer Walpole as Historian.* 

The appearance of the two last volumes of Sir 
Spencer Walpole's " History of Twenty-Five 
Years " marks the passing of an historian who, 
if he is not to be classed among the greatest 
historical writers, was yet distinctly gifted in 
the art of historical presentation. Sir Spencer 
Walpole died on July 7, 1907. He was con- 
nected, through both father and mother, with 
the so-called ruling class of England, and his 
life was in many respects the life of other men 
of his class and inherited tastes. Added to high 
culture, breeding, and education, was a consci- 
entious devotion to and interest in the routine 
administrative duties of the State. He was a 
university man, and from early manhood mani- 
fested a desire to make a place for himself in 
the world of letters. Beginning as a clerk in 
the War Office, he held various administrative 
positions, such as Commissioner of Fisheries or 
Governor of the Isle of Man, his last office being 
that of Secretary of the Post Office. These 
administrative labors constituted the everyday 
work of his life, and to them he gave a genuine 
interest and a sane energy. He was a good 
servant of the State, and was always welcome in 
political circles and society. Having an un- 
usually wide acquaintance with leaders in both 
parties, his opportunities for observation and 
judgment were many, while his essentially judi- 
cial and unbiassed mind fitted him peculiarly 
for the writing of contemporary history. His 
work, whether in the earlier history of England 
from 1815 to 1858, or in this present history, 
planned and executed as a continuation, is 
always readable, and moves with a dignified 
precision, presenting its facts always clearly 
and injpressing them by sheer simplicity of 
statement. Indeed, the keynote of Walpole's 
attractive style of writing is simplicity — a 
simplicity which, based upon a wide knowledge 
and true assimilation of facts, gives evidence of 
a logical mind and a discriminating pen. Clar- 
ity is characteristic of all his writing. His 
straightforward clear resume of events reads so 
simply that at first one may lose sight of the 
painstaking effort involved in achieving such 
satisfactory results. Doubtless it is advanta- 
geous to the general historian to be unhampered 
by the masses of tiresome detail that the mono- 
graphists must handle; yet Walpole's sources 
were by no means meagre. Many and careful 

*The History of Twenty-Five Years. 1856-1880. By Sir 
Spencer Walpole. Volumes III. and IV. New York: Long- 
mans, Oreen, & Co. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



111 



footnotes indicate a mastery of the most im- 
portant state papers, and the more accessible 
materials for a broader field than that custom- 
arily included within the labors of a specialist. 
He stands midway, therefore, between the spe- 
cialist and the "popular historian," avoiding 
the dreary detail of the former and escaping 
the accusation of inexact knowledge frequently 
directed with justice against the latter. 

These general considerations apply to the 
two present volumes as well as to earlier 
work, even though these last volumes were 
incompleted at the time of the author's death. 
Sir A. C. Lyall, who had the duty of preparing 
them for the press, explains this when he states 
in the preface that his labor has been confined 
practically to slight alterations in the final re- 
view and arrangement of the manuscript, and 
that " the views and conclusions recorded by 
Sir Spencer Walpole stand untouched as he 
wrote them." No one at all familiar with 
Walpole's method and style could doubt this ; 
for in the opinion of the reviewer it would be 
quite impossible to discover any appreciable 
difference between the method and style of 
these last volumes and those of earlier dates. 
And this is important ; for in addition to the 
value of his work as an exhibition of his his- 
torical study and writing, Walpole's labors have 
the merit and interest of being the product of 
a keen, fair-minded, contemporary observer of 
the events which he narrates, and of one in 
close touch with all political leaders of note in 
England, yet not affected by political change 
and political animosities. His work has, there- 
fore, the value of a personal interpretation, 
representing first of all the view-point of the 
man himself, but going even further and repre- 
senting the view-point of a class, both in society 
and in permanent official position, that con- 
stitutes a steady and important factor in the 
history of England in the nineteenth century. 
The " History of Twenty-Five Years " is not 
merely a narrative of events ; it is also a careful 
presentation of both sides of each debatable 
incident, with a frankly expressed judgment of 
the Governmental treatment of that incident. 
Thus the history becomes itself historical mate- 
rial, as the expression of the historical judg- 
ments of a man and his class. 

When first undertaking this later work, the 
author stated that the period from 1856 to 1880 
was unusually full of events demanding English 
interest in questions of foreign policy. He has 
therefore, in Volumes III. and IV., continued 
to confine his attention largely to such questions. 



treating the topics of English diplomacy during 
the Franco-Prussian War, the Russo-Turkish 
War, and the Berlin Treaty of 1878. These 
volmnes furnish an excellent analysis of condi- 
tions which it is to-day necessary to understand 
if one is to appreciate the strength and import- 
ance of present-day disturbances in the Balkan 
States. Nor is this a merely English point of 
view ; for Walpole, more than most Englishmen, 
knows his Continental politics, and is able to 
avoid the insular limitations of other writers. 
As regards America, the main interest in the 
present volumes centres about the Alabama case 
and the Geneva Award ; and here, as every- 
where, the essentially judicial quality of Wal- 
pole's mind is made evident. He is most fair in 
stating the argument for either side, acknowl- 
edging the impossible dilemma in which Lord 
Russell placed England when he ordered the 
detention of the Alabama, yet denied that he was 
in any way bound to prevent her escape. At 
the same time, from the writer's point of view, 
the proposal of Sumner to claim from Great 
Britain a sum equal to the entire cost of the 
Civil War, is equally preposterous. Walpole 
also points out with care one aspect of the 
Alabama arbitration that our American histo- 
rians are prone to neglect — the important con- 
nection in the minds of English statesmen 
between the demand for damages by America 
and the Russian demand, in 1871, for a reversal 
of the Black Sea provisions of the Treaty of 
Paris. The two demands had no real connec- 
tion save that of coincidence ; but this was not 
perfectly clear to the English Government. 
" British statesmen," says Walpole, " however 
ready they might be to uphold their country's 
cause and their country's honor, could not afford 
to disregard the combination of the great Empire 
of the East, with the gi'eat Republic of the West. ' ' 
The importance here attributed to the effect of 
the Russian announcement upon the situation, 
in regard to the Alabama case, but illustrates 
the necessity of much deeper study than has 
hitherto been given to American diplomatic inci- 
dents. Our historical students and writers as a 
class have very largely lost sight of any save the 
two contending parties, when the United States 
has been one of the disputants ; whereas in fact, 
in incident after incident of American diplo- 
matic history, the foreign country with which 
we as a nation were in dispute was more largely 
controlled in its final action by concurrent poli- 
tical conditions in other European countries than 
by its disposition towards the United States. 
In connection with the Alabama case, it is 



112 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 16, 



customary to say that the United States might 
have acquired British America, but preferred a 
litigious dispute for cash. This idea is but 
touched upon by Walpole, and at that in such 
a way as to create the impression that such an 
arrangement was never seriously entertained in 
England, even though the British minister at 
Washington and the London " Times " did 
quite openly hint at it. This aspect of the 
case is not brought specifically forward, however, 
and the author enters no explicit denial for 
England. His great interest is in the European 
rather than in the American situation ; and here 
we find him at home in his estimates of men 
and in his analysis of events. 

Briefly recapitulated, the essential merits of 
Walpole's History are lucidity of statement 
and style, fair-mindedness, and a true assimila- 
tion of such material as was easily accessible. 
These qualities will render his work profitable 
and pleasant reading for many years, while the 
personal testimony of the author's own opinions 
places his writing in the class of indestructible 
historical material. Ephraim D. Adams. 



The Story of HERCuiiANEUM.* 



In setting forth the importance of Hercula- 
neum as a site for archaeological excavation. 
Professor Waldstein rides effusissimis habenis. 
He goes so far as to say that authorities con- 
cerned with classical antiquity are agreed that 
of all ancient sites, without exception, Hercula- 
neum promises to yield the richest treasure to 
the excavator. He believes that " the artistic 
treasure to be found there and the intellectual 
harvest to be reaped is greater than at Rome 
or Athens, Delphi or Olympia, Alexandria or 
Pergamon." Herculaneum, moreover, is of 
greater archaeological importance than the other 
cities near Vesuvius — Cumae, Naples, Stabiae, 
and Pompeii — although each of these was 
larger. An instance is cited where a single villa 
excavated at Hereidaneum in the eighteenth 
century yielded greater treasure in original 
ancient bronzes, and more ancient manuscripts, 
than the excavation of Athens or Rome, Olympia 
or Delphi, Alexandria or Pergamon. 

The reasons given by Dr. Waldstein for his 
belief in the preeminence of Herculaneum as 
an archaeological site are of various kinds. The 
first and most important lies in the conditions 

* Herculaneum — Past, Present, and Future. By Charles 
Waldstein and Leonard Shoobridge. Illustrated. New York: 
The Macmillan Co. 



under which the burial of the ancient town took 
place. The disaster which overtook it arrested 
its ancient life exactly as it was ; the city was 
hermetically sealed — much more so than any 
other of the cities near Vesuvius. Its nearness 
to the volcano must be borne in mind ; for 
while Pompeii was five and three-fourths miles 
distant, Herculaneum was only four and a half 
miles. Moreover, we know from the letters of 
the younger Pliny (Ep. VI., 16 and 20) that 
Pompeii was buried by the rain of ashes which 
the wind, blowing from the northwest, gradu- 
ally sent over the city. Even ultimately, Pom- 
peii was not completely buried, the lapilli and 
ashes not reaching a greater height than twenty 
feet, so that the upper stories of the houses were 
still uncovered after the eruption had ceased. 
Consequently, there was ample time in which 
to remove valuables. Hardly a house now 
remains whose walls were not broken into so as 
to admit those who were bent on carrying off 
its contents. In Herculaneum, on the other 
hand, there was no time to save valuables. The 
city was completely and immediately buried to 
a depth of from sixty to eighty feet. It was 
not gradually covered by a rain of ashes lasting 
for days, but suddenly, by a stream of mud 
which rolled down the slope over it. There 
was time for the inhabitants to escape from the 
town (and it may be noted in passing that very 
few human bodies have been found at Hercula- 
neum), but time for collecting and carrying off 
valuables there could not have been. 

A second cause that makes Herculaneum 
Tinique among archaeological sites is the singu- 
larly preservative quality of the mud that flowed 
through the streets and into the innermost 
recesses of the houses and other buildings. This 
mass of mud became a kind of matrix, covering 
and preserving th(; forms it enveloped. The 
bronzes in the Naples Museum that have come 
from Herculaneum show a most delicate surface 
patina ; glass is not melted, marble is not cal- 
cined, even manuscripts are not damaged beyond 
the possibility of restoration. The mention of 
the manuscripts found in the villa of Piso (there 
were eight hundred of them) arouses the author's 
imagination — a quality in him, it would seem, 
of uncommon sensitiveness and power of respon- 
siveness ; and we have a flight of rhetoric, con- 
spicuous even in this rather over-rhetorical 
volume. " In some viUa there," he writes, 
" may be waiting for us aU the great Greek 
tragedians and writers of comedy, including 
Menander ; the works of the early Greek phil- 
osophers, Heracleitus, Parmenides, Empedocles, 



1909.] 



THE DIAl^ 



113 



Democritiis, Anaxagoras ; the missing works of 
Plato and Aristotle ; the whole of Roman liter- 
ature, the lost books of Livy." 

A further reason upon which Professor 
Waldstein lays emphasis in developing the 
theme of Herculaneum's importance is the evi- 
dence that it, unlike commercial Pompeii, was 
the home of many cultured families — the Balbi, 
for example. Other illustrious Romans who 
lived here were Servilia, Agrippina, Appius 
Claudius Pulcher, and L. Calpurnius Piso. It 
was, in brief, a sort of Roman Newport. Finally, 
says our author, Herculaneum was originally a 
Greek settlement, as we see from its name ; and 
even if we cannot go so far as to say that it 
preserved a pure Greek tradition from its earliest 
days, we may at least assume that it was more 
susceptible to the influence of Greek culture 
than Pompeii, which was of Oscan origin. At 
any rate, whatever the cause, the objects actually 
found in those parts of Herculaneum that have 
been excavated indicate a high degree of Greek 
culture. 

Over the chapters dealing with the past and 
present of Herculaneum we must pass briefly. 
The accounts of its topography, of the inhabit- 
ants, and of the disasters of 63 and 79 a. d., 
give a sufficiently serviceable summary of our 
present knowledge of these subjects, without 
adding anything new. The contents of Chap- 
ter IV., the " History of the Site since the 
Eruption," will probably be less familiar to a 
majority of readers. It was in the eighteenth 
century that excavations of importance were 
first instituted, and were carried on under the 
auspices of Charles III. of Naples. With the 
exception of the underground passages of the 
Theatre, these excavations no longer exist for 
us. Further attempts were made from 1828- 
1855, and again from 1869-1875. To this last 
period belong the parts which are now visible — 
the so-called scavi nuovi, near the sea. Since 
1 8 7 5 no further excavations have been attempted. 
The causes which led to the abandonment of the 
site are (1) the unusual facility of excavation at 
Pompeii, which promised immediate results for 
a comparatively small expenditure of money ; 

(2) the fact that there is a flourishing modern 
town, Resina, right over the ancient city ; and 

(3) the current belief that Herculaneum was 
covered with lava. This belief, the error of 
which has been pointed out, seems to have been 
partly due to the fact that there are patches of 
lava to be found here and there on the site of 
Resina. These, however, have come from erup- 
tions of Vesuvius in more recent times. 



The most noticeable part of Professor Wald- 
stein's volume — the part that manifestly lies 
closest to the interest of the author — is that on 
" The Future of Herculaneum." His elaborate 
scheme for the international excavation of the 
site, a project upon which he worked with great 
energy from 1903 to 1907, fell through. From 
the documents given in the Appendix it appears 
that he had succeeded in interesting King Victor 
Immanuel, King Edward, Emperor William, 
the King of Sweden, President Roosevelt, and 
many ambassadors and financiers. His plan was 
to form in each of the great countries a national 
committee, of which the King, Emperor, or 
President, as the case might be, would be 
honorary chairman. This committee was to be 
broadly representative ; it was to include not 
only the rich and the cultured, but even mem- 
bers of labor-unions ; for, according to Dr. 
Waldstein, the workingman should be per- 
mitted, even stimulated, to contribute his penny 
to the great cause. These various national 
committees were to have their representatives 
on an international committee under whose 
immediate direction the excavation would be 
carried on. The honorary chairman of this 
international committee was to be the king of 
Italy, The actual work on the site was to be 
performed by a corps of a hundred experts of 
different nationalities, with workmen hired by 
them. 

It is the belief of the author that the plan 
almost succeeded. Its failure, he thinks, was 
due mainly to a misunderstanding on the 
part of Italian officials and the Italian press, 
who accepted as authoritative a garbled report 
of it which appeared in a London newspaper. 
But whatever the immediate occasion of the 
apparently sudden change of feeling among 
Italian officials, the underlying cause was obvi- 
ously the jealousy which Italy has always shown 
toward excavation by foreign archaeologists on 
Italian sites. She wishes to i. discover her own 
treasures. 

With the main thesis of the book, that Her- 
culaneum should be excavated, everyone will 
agree ; but in regard to Professor Waldstein's 
extremely positive assertions concerning the rich- 
ness of the treasure buried there, and his insist- 
ence on the preeminence of this over all other 
ancient sites, there will hardly be the same 
unanimity. Undoubtedly many valuable dis- 
coveries would be made there ; even a library 
that would be less disappointing than that of 
Piso's villa might be found ; but few kinds of 
prophecy are more delusive than that which 



114 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 16, 



forecasts the finds in an archaeological excava- 
tion. The book contains much material that is 
interesting; but we believe the author would 
have been more convincing, and would have pro- 
moted his cause more effectively, if he had stated 
the facts in the case more soberly, — if, in other 
words, he had given his readers more archae- 
ology and less rhetoric. 

Professor Waldstein's efforts have not been 
wholly in vain. The Italian government lias 
announced that it will excavate Herculaneum, 
and has appropriated 15,000 francs as a begin- 
ning. In his plan of complete excavation, 
Professor Waldstein estimated that the cost 
would be X40,000 a year. 

On the mechanical side, the book is beauti- 
fully made. The illustrations are numerous 
and unusually well executed ; paper, printing, 
and binding leave nothing to be desired. 

G. J. Laing. 



liETTERS OF THE WiFE OF A GREAT 

Political, Ijeader.* 



The rush of really important events of the 
past few years, as well as their excess of empty 
din, causes the letters of Mrs. Blaine to seem 
like an echo from a much remoter period than 
their dates attest. There is real rest to the 
weary soul, however, in dropping back into 
a political field even no more quiet, compara- 
tively, than that upon which Blaine deployed 
his forces. 

Mrs. Blaine at her best was a bright and 
witty woman, and her letters would stand on 
their own merits far above many which get into 
print ; but, after all, it is the political connection 
which gives them their chief interest. Hence it 
is the inevitable impression that they have been 
a little too thoroughly culled, for the sake of 
avoiding offense, that will be felt by many as 
their main defect. Mrs. Blaine was no mere 
colorless reflector of her husband's opinions and 
prejudices, and the touches of personal feeling 
which have been preserved in her letters are 
often both amusing and effective. For instance, 
just after Mr. Blaine had written his famous 
letter from abroad withdrawing himself from 
the race for the Republican nomination in 1888, 
she writes : "I had a sweet letter from Mr. 
Morton, calling your Father's letter a master- 
piece, and not seeing how it could be accepted. 
Y^ou can trust John Sherman for seeing^ how- 

• The Letters of Mrs. James G. Blaine. Edited by 
Harriet S. Blaine Beale. In two volumes. New York : Duffield 
&Co. 



ever." Unfavorable comment on various com- 
peting Republican leaders is not infrequent, 
President Hayes suffering perhaps the most 
severe treatment — a fact which in itself helps to 
show that the Blaine point of view of American 
politics was not that which was destined to live. 
With half the country feeling that his title to 
his seat was at least questionable, and a large 
share of his own party in opposition to his dis- 
tinctive policies. President Hayes had a heavy 
load to carry ; but time and thought have 
placed the honor and wisdom of his official con- 
duct out of reach of successful attack. One 
looks in vain for any criticism of the Democrat 
who foiled Mr. Blaine's ambitions in the one 
case in which he succeeded in capturing the 
nomination from opponents within his own party. 
Mrs. Blaine's letters are almost all to members 
of her immediate family, and they were aU at 
home during the 1884 campaign. There were 
ample opportunities for the expression of opinion, 
however, during President Cleveland's admin- 
istration, and one is doubtless safe in the con- 
clusion that he owes his immunity to the kindness 
of the editor, and not to the forbearance of Mrs. 
Blaine. 

Her loyalty to her brilliant husband was of 
course too great to allow her to appreciate in 
any adequate degree the defects which marred 
a really great natural endowment ; but no gen- 
erous reader will blame her for that. He would 
be an enemy indeed to the human race who 
would take from love its traditional right to be 
blind. Those who know the whole story, how- 
ever, can hardly avoid the feeling that it would 
have been better to withhold these letters from 
publication. The contrast between the cheerful 
family life of the earlier years and the gather- 
ing gloom toward the end is too painful for the 
public gaze. The editor herself feels the terribly 
depressing effect, and closes with the letters of 
1889, frankly stating that she lacks the courage 
to look farther. " The path that the writer 
was called upon to follow was already passing 
under the shadow of a great grief, and was to 
lead on, from sorrow to sorrow, into a darkness 
that never was lifted in this life." 

There are occasional mistakes in the explan- 
atory footnotes which a proof-reader of ordinary 
intelligence ought to have challenged, — as, for 
instance, a reference to Preston S. Banks as the 
assailant of Charles Sumner. Of course it was 
right to print Mrs. Blaine's letters " wart and 
all," but errors in the notes stand on quite a 

different basis. 

W. H. Johnson. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



115 



Briefs on New Books 



_, , Charles Lamb writes of names in our 

Thackeray's literature that have a iragrance in 
daughter. them — names like Kit Marlowe and 

Drummond of Hawthornden. There are names, too, 
that have echoes in them ; and to those of us who 
care for our English heritage, Lady Ritchie's name 
has in it echoes of all that we delight to honor in 
literary England of the Victorian past — that past 
which was the present so short a while ago, yet seems 
to have receded into the shadow so much farther than 
the actual count by the almanac would warrant. 
Thackeray's daughter is one of the few whose voice 
can make the shadow real to us, and Lady Ritchie's 
new book, " Blackstick Papers " (Putnam), is like 
the gift she tells us of, made by " Jacob Omnium " 
to her father — a cup in which some of us may still 
drink to the past. The quaint title is a reminder of 
that most delightful Thackerayan region, Paphla- 
gonia, the country of "The Rose and the Ring." 
" Readers of my father's works," says Lady Ritchie, 
in her introduction, " will be familiar with the name 
of the Fairy Blackstick who lived in Crim Tartary 
some ten or twenty thousand years ago, and who used 
to frequent the Court of his Majesty King Valoroso 
XXrV. If I have ventured to call the following 
desultory papers by the Fairy Blackstick's name, it 
is because they concern certain things in which she 
was interested — old books, young people, schools of 
practical instruction, rings, roses, sentimental affairs, 
etc., etc." " Felicia Felix" and her admirers (the 
pretty frontispiece shows Mrs. Hemans in her bloom), 
George Sand at Nahant, Horace Walpole's Miss 
Berrys (the elder of whom Lady Ritchie, when a 
child, was taken to see by her father), such "links 
with the past " as the Miss Horace Smiths, the artist 
Bewick and his birds, — these are some of the people 
of whom Lady Ritchie discourses in the graceful 
serene manner which is her own. " She writes like 
a lazy writer who dislikes her work," said Anthony 
TroUope of "Annie Thackeray "in his "Autobiog- 
raphy " more than a quarter of a century ago, adding 
a monitory word to his praise of her talent. To-day, 
with the trail of the journalist over almost all that 
is written for us, we can afford to accept the leisurely 
sentences with nothing but gratitude. 

Short studies ^ "^w book from Dr. Osier, even 
in medical though but a collection of addresses, 

biography. ^^^^ ^f them from ten to fifteen 

years old, is most welcome to all who hunger for 
high thoughts clad in fit language. " An Alabama 
Student, and Other Biographical Essays " (Oxford 
University Press) is a substantial octavo giving the 
general reader a more satisfying taste of the writer's 
quality than has yet been afforded. The title chap- 
ter deals with the least famous, but not therefore 
the least deserving, subject of the thirteen embraced 
in the book. Dr. John Y. Bassett of Alabama, who 
died at forty-six after a useful and active life, 
becomes in Dr. Osier's hands an interesting char- 



acter. Then follow short studies of Thomas Dover 
(of Dover's powders), Keats the apothecary poet, 
O. W. Holmes, John Locke as a physician, William 
Pepper, Alfred Stills, Sir Thomas Browne, Harvey, 
and others less renowned in medicine or surgery or 
literature, but all more or less honorably associated 
with that profession which is the writer's own. Of 
personal interest is it to learn that the " Religio 
Medici," in James T. Fields's edition of 1862, has 
been Dr. Osier's companion since his school days 
and is the most precious book in his library, which 
also contains an " almost complete collection of the 
editions of his [Browne's] works." What Dr. Osier 
notes as true of Burton, Browne, and Fuller — that 
they have " a rare quaintness, a love of odd conceits, 
and the faculty of apt illustrations drawn from out- 
of-the-way sources " — is, by a psychological neces- 
sity, in some measure true of himself. His style, 
too, is enriched with a rare blend of subtle allusion 
and veiled quotation. Probably not every hearer 
of these addresses caught the full flavor of such 
passages as the following incidental reference to the 
coming quater-centenary of the birth of Caius, 
co-founder of Caius College, Cambridge : " As well 
in love as in gratitude, we could celebrate it in no 
more appropriate manner, and in none that would 
touch his spirit more closely, than by the issue of a 
fine edition of his principal works." Among the 
few and fitting illustrations in the book is a portrait 
of Browne from a little-known original at Norwich — 
a most pleasing and satisfying presentment. One 
could wish that Dr. John Brown of Edinburgh had 
bden included among these excellent sketches of 
medico-literary worthies. 

The building of ^he history and development of 
a great State in Minnesota may be taken as typical 
the Northwest, ^f t^e Northwest, and the volume 
on that State in the " American Commonwealths " 
series (Houghton Mifflin Co.) has for this reason a 
general interest that is added to the intrinsic interest 
of the story. The book has been carefully and 
skilfully written by Professor William W. Folwell, 
for many years connected with the State University. 
There are several main currents of interest followed 
by the narrative. First come the dealings of the 
traders and settlers with the former possessors of 
the soil. It is the old story of over-reaching through 
trickery and fraud, through treaties to which the 
simple children of the prairie who knew not what 
they promised were held with literal fidelity, while 
the gi'eedy trader or lumberman could break them 
at his pleasure. Even of the petty sum awarded the 
Indians for the vast stretches of their lands, very 
little reached them, and then only to be squandered 
for whiskey, — the old shameful story. Another 
current of interest is in the rush of settlers, the 
organization of Territorial and State governments, 
and the rainbow schemes for getting land from the 
Government through sham railroad and other com- 
panies. Not at all creditable is the history of the 
five-million loan, the bonds for which the State long 



116 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 16, 



endeavored to repudiate because it secured nothing 
of value in return ; but as wealth grew and the pub- 
lic conscience became more sensitive, a fair settle- 
ment was finally reached and the credit of the State 
was saved. A third feature is the serious Sioux 
outbreak of 1862, which occurred while a large part 
of the defenders of the State were at the front in 
the Civil War. This was one of the severest of 
the Indian disturbances, and the tradition of it 
remains to this day among the people. The state- 
ment of the causes of the trouble shows that the 
Indians were not without reasons for anger against 
those who had tricked and cheated them, even 
though much of the vengeance fell in this case, as 
always, upon innocent persons. 

„ , Back to the homely realities eoes 

Some simple -..^ o i t-. it • r- 

annals of Mr. Stephen Keynolds in quest of 

the poor. material for his book, "A Poor Man's 

House" (Lane). In a general way its tone is like 
that of another very real and wholesomely enjoyable 
narrative which is being much read at present, — 
namely, " A Lord of Lands," by Mr. Ramsey 
Benson. But Mr. Reynolds's book is the veritable 
journal of actual adventures and observations among 
the poor fisherfolk of a little Devonshire seaport, 
whereas Mr. Benson, with all his verisimilitude, is 
obviously not hampering his genius with a strict 
adherence to the literal truth. The English writer's 
summer sojourn in the humble home of the Widger 
family is related with minuteness and humor, and 
with no squeamish avoidance of sundry very human 
and lifelike details that hardly admit of much ideal- 
ization. He tells us that he has lived among the 
poor, " neither as parson, philanthropist, politician, 
inspector, sociologist, nor statistician ; but simply 
because I found there a home and more beauty of 
life and more happiness than I had met with else- 
where." It is his firm belief, too, that " as regards 
the things that really matter, the educated man has 
more to learn of the poor man than to teach him." 
It may comfort us a little amid all the appalling 
accounts that reach us of widespread and extreme 
destitution in London and throughout the country, 
to be assured that " the more intimately one lives 
among the poor, the more one admires their amaz- 
ing talent for happiness in spite of privation, and 
their magnificent courage in the face of uncertainty ; 
and the more also one sees that these qualities have 
been called into being, or kept alive, by uncertainty 
and thriftlessness. . . . Extreme thrift, like extreme 
cleanliness, has often a singularly dehumanizing 
effect." There is abundance of homely dialect con- 
versation, not needing a glossary, however; and the 
realistic story throughout is well worth reading. 



Dolls and 
doll-lore. 



Some years ago Miss Laura B. Starr 
lost her heart to the Japanese dolls in 
the Yokohama shops, and thereupon 
she began collecting dolls and doll-lore. A six years' 
tour around the world gave her unusual opportunities 
to indulge her unusual fad, and now "The Doll Book" 



(Outing Publishing Co.) is the delightful result. 
She dedicates her studies " To all who are interested 
in dolls, from the children who play with them to 
the students of their ethnological and educational 
aspects," — which sounds impossible until one has 
read the book, looked at the pictures, many of them 
in color, and come to realize the universality of the 
passion for dolls and the odd varieties of its expres- 
sion. There are fetish dolls, for instance, and dolls 
of the nativity, puppets, fashion dolls, and dolls with 
supposedly supernatural powers — like the Blessed 
Bambino at Rome, or the dolls in the Asakusa 
Temple in Tokio ; particularly among primitive peo- 
ples, there are doll rites and doll festivals ; and the 
history of the doll, and of some historic dolls, is full 
of interest. Little girls may not care particularly 
for these strange creatures nor for the crude dolls 
of antiquity ; but they will vastly enjoy hearing about 
the tilt-up dolls of the East, the Japanese dolls with 
their five wigs to represent the five stages of woman- 
hood, the wooden dolls that the little Queen Victoria 
dressed, the Dutch and Irish dolls in peasant cos- 
tume, the manufacture of dolls in various parts of 
the world, and the vast possibilities of home manu- 
facture out of such unpromising material as string, 
corn-husks, flowers, or bottles. Miss Starr has been 
skilful in arranging her material, so that in spite 
of its diversity of interests the book seems complete 
rather than heterogeneous. As befits its subject, 
" The Doll Book " is gaily bound, with a Spanish 
doll in sailor costume on the cover, and many pic- 
tures, made largely from the dolls in Miss Starr's 
valuable and interesting collection. 

. „ , Six years have passed since the un- 

A colleague's ,."?,,, / t-. • i • tut i 
tribute to Carla timely death of J^raulem Wencke- 

Wenckebach. jj^ch left in the faculty of Wellesley 
College a gap hard to fill ; and now, after thorough 
preparation for the labor of love, her one-time assist- 
ant and subsequent successor as head of the German 
department, Fraulein Margareth Miiller, presents a 
warmly eulogistic biography of " Carla Wenckebach, 
Pioneer" (Ginn), enlivened with humorous and 
otherwise noteworthy extracts from her lively letters 
to the home folk, and adorned with seven portraits 
of her genuinely German face at various ages from 
thirteen to forty-five. Born at Hildesheim in 1853, 
and educated in that town and at Hannover, fifteen 
miles southward, Fraulein Wenckebach took her 
courage and her destiny in both hands and became 
a wandering teacher of young girls, serving as gov- 
erness in Scotland and Russia before she made the 
still bolder move of seeking her fortune in America, 
where she arrived in the summer of 1879. The 
story of her ups and downs until she unexpectedly 
found herself installed in the enviable position of 
German Professor at Wellesley, in 1883, should be 
read in full in Miss MuUer's brisk and picturesque 
narrative. It is gratifying to find the keenly observ- 
ant young foreigner so enthusiastic in her admiration 
of her adopted country. " She waxes fairly dithy- 
rambic," says her biographer, " in describing the free 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



117 



libraries with their royal outfit for King Public." 
Miss Miiller regrets the necessity of writing her 
book in English instead of German, and of trans- 
lating the passages quoted from letters ; but however 
excellent a German biography she might have given 
us, she has certainly succeeded in presenting in 
English a very engaging picture of a strong and 
inspiring character. 

Backward In his "Recollections of a New 

o vetercm England Educator " ( Silver, Burdett 

educator. & Co.) Dr. William A. Mo wry shows 

himself to be, in a pleasant and instructive and 
wholly commendable fashion, a sort of connecting 
link between the old methods of education and the 
new. Born in 1829 at Uxbridge, a small town in 
Worcester County, Mass., he traces his earliest 
schoolboy remembrances back to the little red (in 
his case it was red brick) schoolhouse with hard 
wooden benches and a division of the pupils accord- 
ing to sex, — boys on one side of the room, girls on 
the other. Both as pupil and as teacher he became 
thoroughly acquainted with the New England dis- 
trict school, before continuing his education beyond 
the three R's at the PhiUips Academy, Andover, 
and at Brown University. The Andover years 
fell within the period when such worthies as John 
Willard, Samuel Fiske ("Dunne Browne"), G. N. 
Anthony, Calvin E. Stowe, Austin Phelps, Justin 
Edwards, and Bela B. Edwards walked the elm- 
shaded streets of that beautiful town, and contributed 
their part toward making its atmosphere one of lit- 
erature and learning and orthodox theology. Dr. 
Samuel H. Taylor, affectionately known as " Uncle 
Sam " to old Andoverians, was then principal of the 
Academy, and he receives a glowing eulogy from 
his pupil of fifty-five years ago. From Andover 
young Mr. Mowry went to Brown University, where 
Wayland was nearing the end of his presidency, 
and where such well-known names as Harkness, 
Lincoln, Greene, Angell, Caswell, and Chase shed 
lustre on the faculty list. Mr. Mowry 's experiences 
as student, teacher, captain of volimteers in the 
Civil War, editor of educational journals, superin- 
tendent of schools, lecturer, and head of teachers' 
institutes, are entertainingly presented, with por- 
traits and other illustrations, and numerous remin- 
iscences of famous educators of his time. 



Afascinatina ^^ ^ ^at^er extended notice of 
page of Greek "The Princes of Achaia and the 
history. Chronicles of Morea," which ap- 

peared in The Dial for May 16, 1907, we 
spoke of the reviving interest in the course 
of Greek History from 1204 to 1566. Now we 
have another careful study of the same period, 
bearing the title " The Latins in the Levant " 
(Dutton), by Mr. William Miller, already known as 
the writer of several works on various parts of the 
" Near East." Our author loves his subject, — " this 
most fascinating stage in the life of Greece "; he 
has an enviable familiarity with the geography 



involved ; he understands that he is dealing with 
very living creatures, instead of mere archaeological 
material ; and, above all, he has worked faithfully 
and long at his diverse and often difficult sources. 
The outcome is a volume of nearly seven hundred 
pages, which may be commended to the student or 
the exceptionally earnest traveller. In itself the 
period is not quite so enchainingly attractive as our 
author insists. That " the romance, the poetic haze 
of Greece was in her middle ages, rather than in 
her classic youth," may be entirely true for the 
writer, and partly true for a few of us ; to most 
readers, however, it will seem largely a matter of 
personal predilection. Nor can we altogether agree 
that Frankish Greece has been unduly neglected, at 
least by recent students. Just now it is assuredly 
receiving its proportionate share of attention. Mr. 
Miller writes clearly and succinctly; but he does 
not exhibit the final grace of style that might carry 
the general reader through the inevitable details of 
a painstaking history treating of countless and 
ephemeral petty dynasties. The use of " Levant " 
in the title is rather unfortunate, since most people 
understand the word quite differently, and our 
author himself frequently uses it in the more com- 
mon acceptation. The index and the maps are 
useful ; but the valuable bibliography might have 
been arranged more conveniently. 



A new edition of " A Histoiy of 
P.SS.t"" ^^« Philippines," by Dr. David P. 

Barrows, director of education in 
those islands, comes from the press of The Bobbs- 
Merrill Co. of Indianapolis. It is practically iden- 
tical with the original edition of 1905, the author 
having found himself unable to agree with the 
many criticisms of the book that came from" Roman 
Catholic sources. The history of the Philippines 
has yet to be written, in the modern sense of the 
word. The summary by Mr. John Foreman, the 
work in English that is most commonly cited as an 
authority, is a mere hodge-podge of information and 
misinformation. This little work by Dr. Barrows 
(originally written for a Philippine school text, but 
never so used) and the introduction written by the 
late Edward G. Bourne for the 55-volume work en- 
titled " The Philippine Islands, 1493-1898," are the 
only surveys of the entire field of Philippine history 
which are written by competent scholars and in 
the modern spirit. Both are necessarily brief and 
incomplete ; but that by Dr. Barrows is much 
fuller of data, and based on a wider reading of 
Philippine sources. 

A Lincoln Unique among the host of books 

centennial called forth by the Lincoln centen- 

souvenir. ^j^i ig Messrs. G. p. Putnam's Sons' 

commemorative volume suggested by M. Jules 
Edouard Roin^'s Lincoln medal. Instead of the 
conventional illustration, each copy of the book, 
which is of course issued in a small edition, contains 
an actual copy of the medal in bronze, mounted in 



118 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 16, 



a heavy cardboard frame. M. Koine's position as 
one of the great medallists of the world is already 
assured ; his head of Lincoln will no doubt remain 
the authoritative medallic representation, and the 
symbolism of the reverse, with its wreath of palm 
and oak, is fitting and beautiful. Besides the medal, 
the book contains an essay on the origin and sym- 
bolism of medals by Professor George N. Olcott of 
Columbia University, an account of the purpose 
and character of the centennial commemoration by 
Richard Lloyd Jones, and half a dozen of Lincoln's 
most characteristic letters and addresses. 



JiTOTES. 



Mrs. Gaskell's " North and South," with an introduc- 
tion by Mr. Clement Shorter, is now published in " The 
World's Classics " by Mr. Henry Frowde. 

Messrs. Henry Holt & Co. publish a second edition 
of " A Laboratory Course in Plant Physiology," by 
Professor William F. Ganong. The original work has 
been entirely rewritten and considerably extended. 

Dr. T. Rice Holmes has just published, through the 
Macmillan Co., a translation of " Ctesar's Commentaries 
on the Gallic War." This version is a by-product of the 
author's historical labors in dealing with the subject of 
the Roman Conquest of Gaul. 

Mr. Eugene Parsons is the author of " The Making 
of Colorado," published by the A. Flanagan Co., Chicago. 
It is an historical sketch, very readable and attractively 
illustrated, of the Centennial State from the age of the 
cliff-dwellers to that of the suffragists. 

" Hazell's Annual " for 1909, imported by Messrs. 
Charles Scribner's Sons, is revised up to the first of 
last December, which is about as nearly up-to-date as a 
work of reference may hope to be. Mr. W. Palmer is 
the editor of this very useful book. 

" The Book of Divine Consolation of the Blessed 
Angela of Foligno," translated by Miss Mary G. 
Steegmann, and provided with an introduction by Mr. 
Algar Thorold, is the latest addition to the " New 
Mediaeval Library" of Messrs. Duffield & Co. 

The volume called " Abraham Lincoln : Tributes from 
His Associates," prepared under the auspices of " The 
Independent " some years ago, and edited by Dr. 
William Hayes Ward, is now republished by Messrs. 
Thomas Y. Crowell & Co. in their " Astor Library of 
Prose." 

Volume III. of the new and superbly illustrated edi- 
tion of Crowe and Cavalcaselle's " History of Painting 
in Italy " is now published by Messrs. Charles Scribner's 
Sons. It is devoted to the schools of Siena, Umbria, 
and North Italy. The reediting has been done by Mr. 
Langton Douglas. 

Issued as Volume II. of the " Viking Club Trans- 
lation Series," we have " The Elder or Poetic Edda," in 
a translation by Miss Olive Bray, with illustrations by 
Mr. W. G. Collingwood. This volume includes the 
mythological poems only, and each page of the trans- 
lation faces one upon which the original text is printed. 
There is an elaborate introduction and commentary, 
besides occasional footnotes. 



« What We Know about Jesus," by Dr. Charles F. 
Dole, is a small book sent us by the Open Court Pub- 
lishing Co. It is a simple popular statement, of " posi- 
tive, ethical, and constructive " intent, of the view which 
modern investigation discloses of the personality of the 
Founder of Christianity. 

" Who 's Who " for 1909, published by the Macmillan 
Co., is thicker than ever, filling nearly twenty-two 
hundred pages. We would suggest the omission from 
future editions of the American names, now so capri- 
ciously selected, and so well provided for in the Amer- 
ican work of similar scope. 

Miss Alice B. Kroeger has prepared a new edition of 
her " Guide to the Study and Use of Reference Books " 
for the use of students and library assistants. The 
work has been greatly enlarged and correspondingly 
increased in usefulness. It is a publication of the 
American Library Association. 

"Old English Plate," by W. J. Cripps, published 
thirty years ago, has been for that time a standard man- 
ual for the collector, having gone through no less than 
nine editions. An abbreviation of the work, entitled 
" The Plate Collector's Guide," prepared by Mr. Percy 
Macquoid, is now published by Messrs. Charles 
Scribner's Sons. 

" The Works in Prose and Verse of Charles and 
Mary Lamb," edited by Mr. Thomas Hutchinson, fill 
two volumes of the " Oxford Edition of Standard 
Authors," published by Mr. Henry Frowde. To the 
same series is also added " The Complete Poetical 
Works of James Thomson," in one volume, edited by 
Mr. J. Logic Robertson. This is a variorum edition, 
for which students will be particularly thankful. 

Mr. Whistler's famous " Ten O'clock " has been 
reprinted by Mr. Ernest Dressel North, and issued 
as a booklet, tastefully bound in paper covers of a 
Whistlerian brown with the inevitable butterfly by way 
of decoration. The reprint, which has the rare dis- 
tinction of having been authorized by the author's liter- 
ary executor, is the only separate edition of the lecture 
now in print. The Pennell biography and the remin- 
iscences of Mr. Bacher, — which unfortunately Miss 
Philip did not authorize, — have revived interest in 
Whistler's personality; and that personality never, 
surely, had more final expression than in the crisp, auda- 
cious phrases of this heretical gospel of art, which set 
London agog and forever severed the friendship between 
Whistler and Oscar Wilde. 

Five volumes recently added to the " Belles Lettres 
Series " of Messrs. D. C. Heath & Co. range over English 
literature from the earliest to the latest period. Old 
English is represented by the " Exodus " and the 
" Daniel," edited by Professor Francis A. Blackburn. 
The drama is represented by Professor Edgar C. 
Morris's edition of " The Spanish Gipsie " and « All 's 
Lost by Lust," by Middleton and Rowley, and by 
Otway's " The Orphan " and " Venice Preserved," in 
one volume edited by Professor Charles F. McClumpha. 
The section of nineteenth-century poetry is now enlarged 
by volumes of selections from Shelley and Arnold, the 
former edited by Professor George E. Woodberry, and 
the latter by Professor Edward E. Hale, Jr. We do 
not understand why these two volumes should have 
no portraits, or frontispiece illustrations of any sort. 
Otherwise, they follow the general plan of their prede- 
cessors in the series. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



119 



List of New^ Books. 

[The following list, containing 104 titles, includes books 
received by The Dial since its last issue.'\ 

BIOGRAPH'S' AND BEMINISCENCES. 
Some Eminent Victorians : Personal Recollections in the 
World of Art and Letters. By J. Corny ns Carr. Illus. in 
photogravure, etc., 8vo, pp. 299. Charles Scribner's Sons. 
$3.50 net. 
Bartholomew de Las Casas : His Life, His Apostolate, and 
His Writings. By Francis Augustus MacNutt. Illus. in 
photogravure, 8vo, pp. 472. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $3.50 net. 
The Tragedies of the Medici. By Edgcumbe Staley. Illus. 
in photogravure, etc., 8vo. pp. 297. Charles Scribner's Sons. 
$3.50 net. 
Stonewall Jackson. By Henry Alexander White, Ph.D. With 
portrait, 12mo, pp. 378. " American Crisis Biographies." 
George W. Jacobs & Co. $1.26 net. 
Aubrey Beardsley. By Robert Ross. Illus., 12mo, pp. 112. 

John Lane Co. $1.25 net. 
Reminiscences of Abraham Liincoln. By distinguished men 
of his time ; collected and edited by Allen Thorndike Rice. 
Revised edition; with portrait, 12mo, pp. 428. Harper & 
Brothers. $2. net. 
The Death of lancoln : The Story of Booth's Plot, His Deed, 
and the Penalty. By Clara E. Laughlin. Illus., 12mo, pp. 336. 
Doubleday, Page & Co, $1.50 net. 
Abraham Lincoln. By Brand Whitlock. With photogravure 
portrait, 18mo. "Beacon Biographies." Small, Maynard 
& Co. 50 cts. net. 
An Astronomer's Wife : The Biography of Angeline Hall. 
By Angelo Hall. With portrait, 12mo, pp. 129. Baltimore: 
Nunn & Co. $1. 

HISTORY. 

The Ancient Greek Historians (Harvard Lectures). By 
J. B. Bury, Litt.D., LL.D. 8vo, pp. 281. Macmillan Co. 
$2.25 net. 

New Hampshire as a Royal Province. By William Henry 
Fry, Ph.D. 8vo, pp. 525. " Studies in History, Economics, 
and Public Law" edited by the faculty of Political Science 
of Columbia University. Longmans, Green, & Co. $3. net, 

History of Contemporary Civilization. By Charles Seig- 
nobos; translation edited by James Alton James, Ph.D. 
12mo, pp. 464. Charles Scribner's Sons. $1.25 net. 

DRAMA AND VERSE. 
The Faith Healer ; A Play in Four Acts. By WUliam Vaughn 

Moody. 12mo, pp. 160. Houghton Mifflin Co. $1. net. 
Joseph and His Brethren : A Dramatic Poem. By Charles 

Wells ; with Introduction by Algernon Charles Swinburne 

and note on Rossetti and Wells by Theodore Watts-Dunton. 

18mo, pp.230. "World's Classics." London : Henry Frowde 
Our Benny. By Mary E. Waller. 12mo,pp. 102. Little, Brown! 

& Co. $1. net. 
Day Dreams of Greece. By Charles Wharton Stark. 16mo, 

pp. 61. J. B. Lippincott Co. 75 cts. net. 

FICTION. 
Maurice Guest. By Henry Handel Richardson. l2mo, pp. 562. 
Duffield&Co. $1.50. 

One Immortality. By H.Fielding Hall. 12mo,pp.263. Mac- 
millan Co. $1.50. 

Comrades : A Story of Social Adventure in California. By 
Thomas Dixon, Jr. Illus. in color, 12mo, pp. 320. Doubleday 
Page & Co. $1.50. 

The SpeU. By WUliam Dana Orcutt. Illus. in tint. 12mo 
pp. 362. Harper & Brothers. $1.50. 

The Explorer. By W. Somerset Maugham. With frontispiece 
in color, 12mo, pp. 297. Baker & Taylor Co. $1.50. 

The cumber. By E. F. Benson. With frontispiece in color 
12mo, pp. 346. Doubleday, Page & Co. $1.40 net. 

The Bridge Builders. By Anna Chapin Ray. 12mo, pp. 407. 
Little, Brown, & Co. $1.50. 

By the Shores of Arcady. By Isabel Graham Eaton. Illus., 
12mo, pp. 325. Outing Publishing Co. $1.25. 

But Still a Man. By Margaret L. Knapp. 12mo, pp. 376. 
Little, Brown, & Co. $1.60. 

The Magician. By W. Somerset Maugham. 12mo, pp. 310. 
Duffield&Co. $1.60. 

The Other Man's Wife. By Frank Richardson. With frontis- 
piece in color. l2mo, pp. 392. Mitchell Kennerley. $1.50. 



Priests of Progress : An Arraignment of Vivisection. By G. 

Colmore. 12mo, pp. 384. B. W. Dodge & Co. $1.50. 
The Silver Oleek. By John Campbell Haywood. Illus.. 12mo. 

pp.236. Mitchell Kennerley. $1. 
Lincoln's Love Story. By Eleanor Atkinson. Illus., 12mo. 

pp. 60. Doubleday, Page & Co. 50 cts. net. 
Lincoln and the Sleeping Sentinel : A True Story. By 

L. E. Chittenden. With portraits, 16mo, pp. 54. Harper & 

Brothers. 50 cts. net. 

TRAVEL AND DESCRIPTION. 

With Rifle in Five Continents. By Paul Niedieck. Illus., 
8vo, pp. 426. Charles Scribner's Sons. $6. net. 

France of the French. By Edward Harrison Baker. Illus., 
12rao, pp. 271. Charles Scribner's Sons. $1.50 net. 

Greece : A Handbook for Travellers. By Karl Baedeker. 
Fourth revised edition ; with maps and plans, 16mo. pp. 447. 
Charles Scribner's Sons. $2.40 net. 

Italy from the Alps to Naples : A Handbook for Travellers. 
By Karl Baedeker. Second edition ; with maps, plans, and 
sketches, 16mo, pp. 398. Charles Scribner's Sons. $2.40 net. 

ART AND ARCHITECTURE. 
The Acropolis of Athens. By Martin L. D'Ooge. Illus., 

8vo, pp. 405. Macmillan Co. $4. net. 
A History of Painting in Italy from the Second to the Six- 
teenth Century. By J. A. Crome and G. B. Cavalcaselle. 

Vol. III., The Sienese. Umbrian. and North Italian Schools. 

Illus. in photogravere, etc., 8vo, pp. 300. Charles Scribner's 

Sons. $6. net. 
The Plate Collector's Guide. Arranged from Cripps's " Old 

English Plate." By Percy Macquoid. Illus., 8vo, pp. 199. 

Charles Scribner's Sons. $2.25 net. 
The Abbeys of Great Britain. By H. Claiborne Dixon. Illus., 

12mo, pp. 204. Charles Scribner's Sons. $1.50 net. 
The History of Engraving from Its Inception to the Time of 

Thomas Bewick. By Stanley Austin. Illus., 12mo, pp. 200. 

Charles Scribner's Sons. $1.50 net. 

PUBLIC AFFAIRS. 

Artificial Waterways and Commercial Development 
(with a History of the Erie Canal). By A. Barton Hepburn. 
12mo, pp. 111. Macmillan Co. $1. net. 

The Banking and Currency Problem In the United 
States. By Victor Morawetz. 12mo, pp. 119. North Amer- 
ican Review Publishing Co. $1. net. 

RELIGION AND THEOLOGY. 
The Faith of a Modem Protestant. By Wilhelm Bousset; 

trans, by F. B. Low. 12mo, pp. 119. Charles Scribner's Sons. 

75 cts. net. 
Some Aspects of Rabbinic Theology. By S. Schechter, M. A. 

12mo, pp. 384. Macmillan Co. $2.26 net. 
The Wisdom of Solomon. In the Revised Version, with 

Introduction and notes by J. A. F. Gregg, M. A . 16mo, pp. 192. 

"Cambridge Bible for Schools and Colleges." G. P. Putnam's 

Sons. 90 cts. net. 
The Sunday School Teacher's Manual. Edited by William 

M. Groton. 8.T.D., and others. 12mo. pp. 391. George W. 

Jacobs & Co. $1. net. 
Sane Evangelism. By W. WIstar Hamilton. D.D. l2mo. 

pp. 216. Griffith & Rowland Press. 76 cts. net. 
Abraham Lincoln's Religion. By Madison C. Peters. 12mo. 

pp. 70. Gorham Press. 75 cts. 
Mioah. By Max L. Margolis, Ph.D. 12mo, pp. 104. Philadel- 
phia : Jewish Publication Society of America. 

PHILOSOPHY. 
The Life of the Spirit : An Introduction to Philosophy. By 

Rudolph Eucken ; trans, by F. L. Pogson. 12mo, pp. 403. 

"Crown Theological Library." G. P. Putnam's Sons. 

$1.50 net. 
The Philosophy of Self-Help. By Stanton Davis Kirkham. 

12mo. pp. 272. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $1.26 net. 

REFERENCE BOOKS. 
Dictionary of the Bible. Edited by James Hastings, D.D., 

with the assistance of John A. Selbie, D.D., John C. Lambert, 

D.D., and Shailer Mathews, D.D. Large 8vo, pp. 992. Charles 

Scribner's Sons. $6. net. 
A Standard Bible Dictionary. Edited by Melancthon W. 

Jacobus, D.D., Edward E. Nourse, D.D., and Andrew C. 

Zenos, D.D., in association with American, British, and 

German scholars. With maps and illustrations, large 8vo, 

pp. 920. Funk & Wagnalls Co. $6. net. 



120 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 16, 



Hazell's Annual for 1909: A Cyclopaedic Record of Men 

and Affairs lor Use in 1909. Revised to November 30, 1908 ; 

editedbyW. Palmer, B.A. 12mo, pp. 624. Charles Scribner's 

Sons. $1.50 net. 
United States KEagrnetic Tables and Hagrnetic Charts 

for 1905. By G. A. Bauer. 4to, pp. 154. Washington: 

Government Printing Office. 

BOOKS FOB THE YOUNG. 
The Bishop and the Boogrerman. By Joel Chandler Harris ; 

illus. by Charlotte Harding. 12mo, pp. 184. Doubleday, 

Page & Co. $1. net. 
The Life of Abraham Lincoln for Boys and Girls. By Charles 

W. Moores. Illus., 12mo, pp. 132. Houghton Mifflin Co. 

60 cts. net. 

EDUCATION. 

The Rhetoric of Oratory. By Edwin Du Bois Shurter. 12mo. 
pp. 305. Macmillan Co. $1.10 net. 

Applied Mechanics for Engrineers : A Text-Book for Engi- 
neering Students. By E. L. Hancock. 12mo, pp. 386. Mac- 
millan Co. $2. net. 

Chimes of Childhood : Singable Songs for Singing Children. 
Words by Annie Willis McCullough ; music by Ida Maude 
Titus. 8vo, pp. 48. Oliver Ditson Co. |1. 

Choruses and Fart Songs for High Schools. By Edward 
Bailey Birge. 4to, pp. 183. American Book Co. 85 cts. 

Lectures et Conversations. Par Dubois et De Geer. Illus., 
12mo, pp. 151. New York : William R. Jenkins Co. 76 cts. net. 

Control of Body and Hind. By Frances Gulick Jewett. 
Illus., 12mo, pp. 267. Ginn & Co. 50 cts. net. 

Songs Every One Should Know ; Two Hundred Favorite 
Songs for School and Home. Edited by Clifton Johnson. 
8vo, pp. 208. American Book Co. 50 cts. net. 

y van Gall : Le Pupille de la Marine. Par Gabriel Compayr^ ; 
edited by O. B. Super. 16mo, pp. 201. Henry Holt &, Co. 
36 eta. net. 

Der Bibliothehar. By Gustav von Moser. Edited by Hollon 
A. Farr, Ph.D. 16mo, pp. 176. Henry Holt & Co. 40 cts. 

Ultimo. By Gustav von Moser. Edited by Charles Langley 
Crow. M.A. 16mo, pp. 213, Henry Holt & Co. 35 cts. 

Lotti, Die Uhrmaoherin. By Marie von Ebner-Eschenbach. 
Edited by George Henry Weedier. 12mo, pp. 162. Henry 
Holt & Co. 35 cts. 

The Vision of Sir Launf al. By James Russell Lowell ; edited 
by Julian W. Abernethy. With portrait, 16mo, pp. 172, 
New York ; Charles E. Merrill Co. 25 cts. 

French Word-Lists. By B. Frank Carter. 12mo, pp. 74. 
Henry Holt & Co. 25 cts. net. 

Select English Classics. Edited by A. T. Quiller-Couch. 
Comprising: Thomas Hood, Wordsworth, Robin Hood, 
Milton, Boswell's Johnson, Lamb, Walpole's Letters, Napier, 
Goldsmith, Robert Browning, Defoe, Tennyson, Matthew 
Arnold, Early Lyrics, Blake, Bunyan, Crabbe, Shakespeare's 
Songs and Sonnets, Izaak Walton, Marvell, Shelley, Hazlitt 
Everyman, Coleridge, Marlowe, Cowper, Keats. 16mo. Oxford 
University Press. Each, paper, 10 cts. 

SIISCELLANEOUS. 

Beverages, Past and Present : An Historical Sketch of Their 
Production, Together with a Study of the Customs Con- 
nected with Their Use, By Edward R. Emerson. In 2 vols., 
8vo, pp. 1077. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $6. net. 

Aerial Warfare. By R. P. Hearne, with Introduction by Sir 
Hiram Maxim. Illus., 8vo, pp.237. John Lane Co. $2.50 net. 

Gardens Fast and Present. By K. L. Davidson. Illus. in 
color, etc., 12mo, pp. 232. Charles Scribner's Sons. $1.50 net. 

Utopian Papers: Being Addresses to "The Utopians." By 
Professor Patrick Geddes, S. H. Swinny, Dr. J. W. Slaughter, 
V. V. Branford, Dr. Lionel Tayler, Sister Nivedita, F. W. 
Felkin, and Rev. Joseph Wood ; edited by Dorothea Hollins. 
Illus., 12mo, pp. 208. London : Masters & Co. 

The Book of the Divine Consolation of the Blessed 
Angela of Foligno. Trans, from the Italian by Mary G. 
Steegmann, with Introduction by Algar Thorold. Illus. in 
photogravure, etc., 16mo, pp. 265. " New Mediaeval Library." 
Duffield&Co. $2. net. 

The Two Travelers : A Book of Fables. By Carlota Monte- 
negro. 12mo, pp. 124. Poet Lore Co. $1.25. 

When the Wildwood Was in Flower. By G. Smith Stanton. 
Illus., 12mo, pp. 130. New York : J. S. Ogilvie Publishing Co. 
$l.net. 



THE 

Mosher 
Books 

The only collec- 
tion of genu- 
ine hand-made 
paper books at 
popular prices 
in tAmerica. 



THE 

MOSHER BOOKS 

CATALOGUE 



My New Catalogue covering 
every title I have published, 
1891-1908 inclusive, is now 
ready, and will be mailed free 
on request. It is without ques- 
tion a bibelot in itself and as 
choice a production as I can 
hope to offer. 

Thomas B.MosHER 

PORTLAND, MAINE 



GASH PRIZES 
TO AUTHORS 



For long stories .... $9,000.00 
For short stories .... 4,600.00 
Anecdotes, poems, etc. . 1,600.00 
Competition open to all for 

=^^== a total of $15,000.00 

Merit alone counts. Send 5 cents for February number, giving 
all details. WOMAN'S HOME JOURNAL, Springfield, Mass. 



SCARCE AND FINE BOOK CATALOGUE 

Issued monthly and mailed free on request. Always intbkbst- 
ING. PricesLowbst. Sendforone. JOSEPH Mcdonough CO. 
(Established 1870.) 98 State Street, Albany, N. Y. 



F. M. HOLLY 

Authors' and Publishers' Bepresentatlve 

Circulars sent upon request. 156 Fifth Avenue, Nbw Yobk. 

I TYPFWRITF Reasonable Rates 5509 Greenwood Ave. 
L*l,tTo/;n.nlrc Expert Work CHICAGO 

MANUSCKlrTo myrtle goodfellow Tei. hp eso? 



MANUSCRIPTS 
TYPEWRITTEN 



EXPERT SERVICE 

MODERATE FEES 
L. E. Swartz, 626 Newport, Chicago 



A New Volume in The Art of Life Series. 
Edward Howard Griggs, Editor. 

SELF-MEASUREMENT 

A Scale of Human Values u-i/h Directions for Personal Application 
By WILLIAM DE WITT HYDE, President of Bowdoin College. 

At all bookstores. 50 cts net; postpaid, 55 cts. 
B. W. HUEBSCH PUBLISHER NEW YORY CITY 



WILLIAM R. JENKINS CO. ^^^^!;^1^:^i 

851-853 SIXTH AVE., Cor. 48th St., NEW YORK 



FRENCH 

AND OTBKB 
FOREIOM 

BOOKS 

Complete cata- 
logs on request. 



READ CUB 

ROMANS CHOISIS. 26 Titles. Paper 
60 cts., cloth 85 cts. per volume. CONTES 
CHOISIS. 24 Titles. Paper 25 cts., cloth 
40 ctB. per volume. Masterpieces, pure, by well- 
known authors. Read extensively by classes; 
notes in English. List on application. 



Politics I Read 



Romance 



Mary Johnston's 



Lewis Rand 



Adventure 



The Great Novel 
of the Year 



I History 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



121 



The Home 
Poetry Book 

We have all been 
wanting so 

Irinrr .^^^^ Edited by 

WJVV^,^^^^ FRANCIS F. BROWNE 

Editor "Poems of the Civil War," 
"Laurel Crowned Verse," etc. Author 
"Everyday Life of Lincoln," etc., etc. 

"GOLDEN POEMS" contains more of everyone's 
favorites than any other collection at apopU' 
lar price, and has besides the very best of the 
many fine poems that have been written in 
the last few years. 

Other collections may contain more poems of owe 
kind or more by one author. 

"GOLDEN POEMS" (by British and American 
Authors) has 550 selections from 300 writers, 
covering the whole range of English literature. 



"Golden Poems' 



"GOLDEN POEMS " is a fireside volume for the 
thousands of families who love poetry. It is 
meant for those who cannot afford all the col- 
lected works of their favorite poets— it offers 
the poems they like best, all in one volume. 

The selections in " GOLDEN POEMS " are classi- 
fied according to their subjects : By the Fire- 
side; Nature's Voices; Dreams and Fancies; 
Friendship and Sympathy; Love; Liberty and 
Patriotism; Battle Echoes; Humor; Pathos and 
Sorrow; The Better Life; Scattered Leaves. 

" GOLDEN POEMS," with its wide appeal, at- 
tractively printed and beautifully bound, 
makes an especially appropriate Christmas 
gift. 

In two styles binding, ornamental cloth and flex- 
ible leather. Of booksellers, or the publishers, 
A. C. McCLURG & CO., CHICAGO. 
Price, fx.SO- 




THE NEW YORK BUREAU OF REVISION 

Established in 1880. LETTERS OF CRITICISM. EXPERT 
REVISION OF MSS. Advice as to publication. Address 
DR. TITUS M. COAN, 70 FIFTH AVE., NEW YORK CITY 

OUR ASSISTANCE 

IN THE PURCHASE OF BOOKS, E8PECIALY RABE OB SCARCE ONES, 

IS ALWAYS AVAILABLE, AND HAS HELPED MANY CAREFUL BUYERS. 

WE SEND OUR CATALOGUE ON REQUEST. 

THE TORCH PRESS BOOK SHOP. CEDAR RAPIDS. IOWA 

ROOkT^ ALL OUT- OP- PRINT BOOKS SUPPLIED, 
t> V7 vf IV J . no matter on what subject. Write us. We c«n get 

you any book ever published. Please state wants. Catalogue fiee. 
BAKER'S GREAT BOOK SHOP, 14-16 Bright St., Bibhikoham, Ens. 

STUDY and PRACTICE of FRENCH in Four Parts 

L. C. BoNAMB, Author and Publisher, 1930 Chestnut St., Philadelphia. 
Well-graded series for Preparatory Schools and Colleges. No time 
wasted in superficial or mechanical work. French Text: Numerous 
exercises in conversation, translation, composition. Part I. (60 cts.): 
Primary grade; thorough drill in Pronunciation. Part II. (90 cts.): 
Intermediate grade ; Essentials of Orammar; 4th edition, revised, with 
Vocabulary; most carefully graded. Par< i7/. ($1.00): Composition, 
Idioms, Syntax; meets requirements for admission to college. Part IV. 
(35c.): handbook of Pronunciation tor AdiyaxiceAgisAo; concise and com- 
prehensive. Sent to teachers for examination, with a view to introduction, 

"TOM JONES " GRATIS! Send address and receive Fielding's 
masterpiece, cloth bound, all charges paid. Richest and rarest of 
novels; Scott called it "true to life and inimitable." Hard to find in 
bookstores and then costly. Send only $1. for the Pathfinder a year — 
the well-known national weekly review — and get book free. 

PATHFINDER PUBLISHING CO., Washington, D. C. 

Le Conversationaliste Frangais Illustre 

enables every capable Professeur to make all his Ellves 
speak French, instead of a few, here and there, as at present. 
Fascicule No. 1, 50 pages, 10 lessons, 25 cents, but free to every 
French teacher, and to every school in which French speaking 
is taught. E. ROTH, 1135 Pine Street, Philadelphia. 



You can preserve your current 
numbers of The Dial at a trifl- 
ing cost with the 



P 



ERFECT 
AMPHLET 
RESERVER 



An improved form of binder 
holding one number or a vol- 
ume as firmly as the leaves of a 
book. Simple in operation, and 
looks like a book on the shelf. 

Substantially made, 
with "The Dial" 
Stamped on the back. 

Sent, postpaid, for 

25 CENTS 

The Dial Company, Chicago 



122 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 16, 



Indispensable Books for Every Library 
at Less than One-third Published Price 

TJAVING secured the entire remaining stock of the original 
-■- -^ "Muses' Library," published by Charles Scribner's Sons 
in conjunction with Lawrence & Bullen of London, we are 
able to offer this well-known series at less than one-third the 
original price. The volumes are beautifully printed and bound, 
and fully edited by prominent English scholars. Each contains 
a portrait in photogravure. A list of the titles is given below. 



POEMS OF HENRY VAUGHAN 
Edited by E. K. Chambers, with 
an Introduction by H. C. 
Beeching. 
Two volumes. 



" Vaughan may occasionally out-Herbert Herbert in metaphors and 
emblems, but in spite of them, and even through them, it is easy to see 
that he has a passion for Nature for her own sake ; that he has observed 
her works ; that indeed the world is to him no less than a veil of the 
Eternal Spirit, whose presence may be felt in any, even the smallest, 
part." — H. C. Beeching. 



POEMS OF JOHN KEATS 

Edited by G. Thorn Drury, with 
an Introduction by Robert 
Bridges. 
Two volumes. 



" What was deepest in the mind of Keats was the love of loveliness for 
its own sake, the sense of its rightful and preeminent power ; and in the 
singleness of worship which he gave to Beauty, Keats is especially the 
ideal poet." — Stopford Brooke. 



POEMS OF THOMAS CAMPION 
Edited by A. H. Bullen. 
One volume. 



" Few indeed are the poets who have handled our stubborn English 
language with such masterly deftness. So long as ' elegancy, facility, 
and golden cadence of poesy ' are admired. Campion's fame will be 
secure." — A. H. Bullen. 



POETRY OF GEORGE WITHER 
Edited by Frank Sidgwick. 
Two volumes. 



"The poems of Wither are distinguished by a hearty homeliness of 
manner and a plain moral speaking. He seems to have passed his life 
in one continual act of innocent self-pleasing." — Charles Lamb. 



POEMS OF WILLIAM BROWNE 
OF TAVISTOCK 
Edited by Gordon Goodwine, 
with an Introduction by A. H. 
Bullen. 
Two volumes. 



" Browne is like Keats in being before all things an artist, he has the 
same intense pleasure in a fine line or a fine phrase for its own sake. . . . 
In his best passages — and they are not few — he will send to the listener 
wafts of pure and delightful music." — W. T. Arnold. 



POEMS OF SAMUEL TAYLOR 
COLERIDGE 

Edited by Richard Garnett. 
One volume. 



"Although the best poetical work of Coleridge is extremely small in 
bulk . . . yet his poetry at its best reaches the absolute limits of English 
verse as yet written." — George Saintsbury. 



Reduced from $1.75 to 
50c. a Volume, Postpaid 



BROWNE'S BOOKSTORE 

THE FINE ARTS BUILDING 

MICHIGAN BLVD. CHICAGO 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



123 



OF INTEREST TO 

LIBRARIANS 

Manual of American History, 
Diplomacy, and Government 

By ALBERT BUSHNELL HART 

Professor of History in Harvard University . 
8vo. 654 pasres. Cloth, 12.00. 
An outline of three detailed courses in history, diplo- 
macy, and government, three lists of thirty lectures 
suitable for summer schools or university extension, 
three sets of Class-Room Papers and comprehensive 
bibliographies which will be of special assistance to the 
investigator, debater, or thesis writer. 

Readings in the History of Education 
— Mediaeval Universities 

By ARTHUR O. NORTON 

Assistant Prof essor of the History and Art of Teachino 

in Harvard University . 

12mo. 155 pages. Cloth, 86 cents. 

Translations and reprints of documents concerning 

European universities before 1500 a.d., with descriptive 

and explanatory text. The documents are chosen to 

illustrate the careers of Abelard and John of Salisbury, 

the privileges, studies, exercises, and requirements for 

degrees of the universities, and the scholastic method. 

State Papers and Speeches on the Tariff 

By F. W. TAUSSIG 

Professor of Economics in Harvard University. 
16mo. 386 pages. Cloth. $1.00. 

A stimulating introduction to a consideration of the 
principles of international trade and of customs policy. 
The volume includes Hamilton's Report on Manufac- 
tures, Gallatin's Memorial of the Free Trade Convention, 
"Walker's Treasury Report of 1845, and the speeches of 
Clay and Webster on the Tariff of 1824. 

Further information in regard to these 
books and a complete list of the publi- 
cations of Harvard University may 
be secured from the Publication Agent. 

HARVARD UNIVERSITY 

Publication Office: 
2 UNIVERSITY HALL, CAMBRIDGE, MASS. 



JAMES D. BRUNER'S 

HUGO'S DRAMATIC CHARACTERS 

' An admirable piece of criticism, evincing mastery of the theme, 
fine analytical power, interpretative ability of a high order, and 
withal a charming literary atjle." — Biblical Recorder. 

GINN AND COMPANY, PUBLISHERS 



The American Historical Review says : " We cannot be 
too thankful for the copious index to 

Early Western Travels 

For the first time we have in a form adapted to easy 
use a great mass of material that will enable the inves- 
tigator in a small college, which has not many books, to 
study from the sources the main facts of Western 
social and economic history — at least to see for him- 
self the main conditions as described by travellers in a 
period of a hundred years." 

The Arthur H. Clark Co. 

CLEVELAND, OHIO 



OUR LIBRARY SERVICE 

WE have recently supplemented our service to Libraries, by 
procuring Out-of- Print and Scarce Books, and by importing 
English books. 

Our EDUCATIONAL CATALOGUE contains a full list 
of Supplementary Reading, indicating the grade to which each 
title is adapted. 

Our CLEARANCE CATALOGUE contains overstock at 
special prices, and an alphabetical arrangement by authors of all 
cheap editions of Recent Popular Fiction and Standard Library 
12mos in one list. 

Our LI BRARY CATALOGU E of 3500 approved titles, fol- 
lowing A. L. A. lines, is of great convenience to small libraries. 

Our MONTHLY BULLETIN notices promptly every new 
book of importance. 

These Catalogues are sent on request. Three notable features of 
our service are : promptness, thoroughness, and low prices. 

THE BAKER & TAYLOR CO. 

WHOLESALE DEALERS IN THE BOOKS OF ALL PUBLISHERS 

33 East Seventeenth Street, New York 



p A Dp and unusual BOOKS on South America, 
*^'^*^'-« Texas, Ifexico, West Indies, etc. 

LATIN-AMERICA BOOK COMPANY. 
CataloiTue on application. 203 Front St., New York City. 



M AGGS BROS. London, W. C, England 

Dealers in Rare Books, Prints, and Autographs 

Voyages and Travels. Early Printed Books. Illuminated 
MSS. First Editions. Sporting and Coloured Plate Books. 
General Literature. 

Also Fine Portraits and Fancy Subjects (chiefly Eighteenth 
Century). Early Engravings by the Old Masters. Modern 
Etchings by Whistler and others. 

Autograph Letters and MSS. of great Historic and Literary 

interest. 

Classified Catalogues post free on application. 

Customers' "desiderata" searched for and reported 

free of charge. 



OF INTEREST 
to LIBRARIANS 



TX /"E are now handling a larger per- 
* ' centage of orders from Public 
Libraries, School and College 
Libraries, than any other dealer in 
the entire country. This is because 
our book stock, covering all classes 
and grades of books, is more com- 
plete than that of any other book- 
seller in the United States, enabling 
us to make full and prompt ship- 
ments. Also, because we have a well 
equipped department looking after 
this special branch of the business. 

A. C. McCLURG & CO. 

LIBRARY DEPARTMENT CHICAGO 



124 THE DIAL. [Feb. 16, 1909. 



Four New Books of Travel and Observation 

Another " New World " is to be reckoned with. Some of the oldest races are putting on 
new youth. Japan has already attained adolescence in this process. China is in the 
stormy state preceding adolescence, and in South America the Latin race is assuming a 
new and stronger manhood. At the same time Anglo-Saxon enterprise is digging the 
Panama Canal with its prophetic motto " The Land Divided : the World United." The 
whole process may be traced by readers of the four books following : 

' I rii3k A nri^ntl I Cltiri ^^^° volumes, with over fifty illustrations and four maps. 
1 11 W /nLllV4Wall Ju^CtllVJl Larere 8vo. $6.00 net. 

By CHASE S. OSBORN 

South America is tbe theatre where the Latin race may for the extension of trade in South America, and points 

recrenerate its fallen fortunes. Vast and wealthy beyond ' out causes of American weaknesses in export business 

computation, tbe continent's internal development has methods. Many sections of the book, such as the historical 

outstripped tbe historian, and up to the present but little sketch of Bolivar, and the description of the Falkland 

has been recorded of this newer world. Mr. Osborn's book Islands, contain matter never before printed inthiscountry 

is not only good literature, but performs a distinct service The story of Bolivar'sdesperatefight for freedom, when even 

to all whose interests in our southern neighbors has been the terror of earthquake seemed set loose to aid the tyranny 

but poorly served by their knowledge. Its table of dis- of Church and State, is of special interest. Mr. Osborn 

tances, and other matter of interest to the tourist, give it writes with the authority of an intimate acquaintance 

the authorty of a guide book. It contains valuable hints with the country from Panama to the Straits of Magellan. 

The World United : "■" '""'""" ^"""W^^'^Sr' '" """"'• ""' 

By JOHN GEORGE LEIGH Beady April 
Profusely illustrated by photosrraplis and plans. Indexed, and with an appendix. Iiarg'e 8vo. $4.00 net. 

The inscription on the seal of the Panama Canal Zone the powers to arrange for permanent neutrality of the zone. 

Government reads" The LandDivided : the World United," The Panama Canal is likely to take a prominent place in 

The progress of this prophecy toward fulfilment is traced political discussions, news and editorial pages, and appro- 

exhaustively in Mr. Leigh's book. The author has priations during the next few years, and whoever would 

" covered " the canal for the last nine years for the Lon- discuss, read, or listen intelligently, will read this most 

don "Engineer," the greatest of British engineering clear-sighted rdst(m(^ and forecast of Panama. The book is 

papers. He was formerly associate editor of the " Engi- a most readable one, beginning with Columbus and Magel- 

neering Magazine " of New York and London. Mr. Leigh Ian, covering the unfortunate French r^s/ime, and paying 

is, therefore, well equipped to view the canal project from high tribute to the American conquest of the hygienic diffl- 

an international standpoint. That he does so is evidenced culties. Matters of technical detail which would cumber 

by his plea for the calling by America of a conference of theotherwiseeasytext, have been confined to an appendix. 

f £^^4-^4*0 T?4t/^«Y« /'^Ki«-»rt With Particular Reference to the Empress Dowager 
L^Cllwrd FrOni V^dima and the Women of China 

By SARAH PIKE CONGER Ready April 

Profusely illustrated. Smooth red oloth stamped in white, ?old, and grreen. Crown 8vo. $2.60 net. 
The dismissal from office of Yuan Shi Kai, Orand well as the Empress Dowager, the Imperial Princesses, and 
Councillor and Commander-in-Chief of the Chinese forces, their retinue, to pose before the camera for the first time in 
following so closely upon the death of the Empress their or their country's history. Among these photographs 
Dowager, focusses the attention of the western world upon are striking ones of the Empress Dowager, and of Yuan Shi 
the inscrutable empire once more and gives a most timely Kai, who now faces possible death following political dis- 
interest to this sidelight on China. Mrs. Conger lived in grace at the hands of the reactionaries. Mrs. Conger's 
China from 1898 to 1904 as the wife of the American Minister. relations with the Empress Dowager were those of closest 
Her letters to relatives in America, with other papers, and personal intimacy and these letters reveal that mysterious 
copies of official documents, the letters including a running woman in a new and kindlier light. At the same time 
account of the seige of the legations, comprise the text of they show that Mrs. Conger used her influence in China to 
this book. Mrs. Conger made a unique collection of photo- further materially the interests of Western civilization in 
graphs while in China, persuading many high officials, as that country. 

T'* T7 • c .1 Tl . Japan as It Was, Is, and Will Be 

1 he hmpire of the hast : By h. b. Montgomery 

With firontispiece in color, and sixteen other illustrations. Large Svo. $2.60 net. Beady April 

Mr. Montgomery takes Japan seriously. But his con- Spencer'sPhilosophy,Huxley'sE8says, and, a large section 

ception of Japan is not colored by the Yellow Peril, which of it, Marx and Engel too. That Japan will discourage 

he declares is the only thing about Japan that many peo- foreign enterprise on her soil, when it is legitimate, that 

pie do take seriously. Throughout this work, the author she will enlist China as an engine of destruction against 

avoids the bizarre and presents a comprehensive picture of the western world, that she will stop short at western imi- 

an active nation, permeated with art, it is true, but even in tation, are things Mr. Montgomery does not believe. He 

its art, utilitarian, and bending all its energies toward does believe in Japan and her future. His chapters on 

national progress, the extension of trade and adequate Japanese art are unusually explicit and collectors would 

recognition by other nations. The Japan Mr. Montgomery do well to read them, 
pictures is reading Mill's Representative Government, 

A. C. McCLURG &? CO., PUBLISHERS, CHICAGO 



fubli^ iiU'^^i^- 



THE 




JI SEMI-MONTHLY JOURNAL OF 



Edited by \ Volume XL VI. 

FRANCIS F. BROWNE J No. 5U5. 



CHICAGO, MAECH 1, 1909. ''£!;,7eT:-{^'^i^^lu^Z' 



READY MARCH 20 

ALICE BROWN'S 

great human novel 

The Story of Thyrza 

The story of a woman's whole life, 
how, overtaken in girlhood by a 
tragic wrong, she masters destiny and 
wins her way to happiness. A big 
optimistic novel of absorbing interest. 



With frontispiece in color by Alice Barber Stephens. 
$1.35 net. Postpaid, $1.50. 



BOSTON HOUGHTON MIFFLIN COMPANY new york 



126 



THE DIAL) 



.[March 1, 1909. 



A WORK OF UNUSUAL IMPORTANCE TO BE 
COMPLETED IN MARCH 

Cyclopedia of 
American Agriculture 

Edited by L. H. BAILEY, with the 
aid of about 300 expert contributors. 

In four quarto volumes, with one hundred full-page plates, and about 
two thousand other original illustrations. 



Volume 1. FARMS, CLIMATES, 
SOILS, Etc. 

Volume II. FARM CROPS (indi- 
vidually), PRODUCTS OF 
AGRICULTURE 



Volume III. FARM ANIMALS, 
ANIMAL PRODUCTS 

Volume IV. THE FARM AND 
THE COMMUNITY. 

Nearly ready. 



Professor BAILEY has a national reputation as the editor-in-chief of the 
" Cyclopedia of American Horticulture," author of many valuable manuals on agricultural 
subjects, Director of the College of Agriculture, Cornell University, and Chairman of the 
Commission on Country Life, whose report has recently been forwarded to Congress. 
His aim has been to have each feature of the farming industry described by the man who 
knows the most about it to-day. 

Special features of the work are these: Its articles are all new and are signed. 
It is up-to-date in its information, authoritative and trustworthy. It is broad, supply- 
ing advice to the man vv^ho is organizing a large farm, or to the vt^oman w^ho wishes to 
run farm housekeeping on lines as perfect as possible. It tells what crops can be grown 
from the wheat fields of the Northwest to the tropical island regions, and it tells how to 
do it to the best advantage. Almost any farmer can by its use save its cost ten times 
over ; with the younger generation it will prove tremendously educative. It is indispen- 
sable to any man who means to really live on a farm. 

Four volumes, in cloth, $20. oo net ; in half morocco, $j2.oo. 



Rina's Ramsay's 

nenu novel 

The Straw 

The keen, cool air of the hunt- 
ing field when the chase is on 
and there is a spice of danger 
ahead, is the atmosphere of this 
exciting story of love and mys- 
tery. Cloth, $1.50. 



Mr. Maurice Hillquit's 

account of 

Socialism in Theory 
and Practice 

is a clear, candid account of this 
many-sided subject which prob- 
ably will answer more of the 
student's questions about it than 
any one other volume. 
Cloth , Si .50 net; by mail, $1.62. 



Mr. Eden Phillpotts's 

neiu novel 

The Three Brothers 

Mr. Phillpotts is always to be 
counted on for tremendous pas- 
sion and satisfying humor. 
" No discriminating reader who 
begins it will put it aside un- 
finished," says the Chicago 
Tribune. Cloth, $1.30. 



PUBLISHED 
BY 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 



64-66 Fifth Ave., 
NEW YORK 




DIAL 



31 Snnisl9a0ntijl2 Journal of iLitrrarg Criticigm, ©igniggum, anti Jniormatlon. 



THE DIAL (founded in 1880) is published on the 1st and llith oj 
each month. Tebms op Subscription, S2. a year in advance, postage 
prepaid in the United States, and Mexico; Foreign and Canadian 
postage 50 cents per year extra. Remittances should be by check, or 
by express or postal order, payable to THE DIAL COMPANY. 
Unless otherwise ordered, subscriptions will begin with the current 
number. When no direct request to discontinue at expiration of sub- 
scription is received, it is assumed that a continuance of the subscription 
is desired. Advertising Rates furnished on application. All com' 
munications should be addressed to 

THE DIAL, Fine Arts Building, Chicago. 

Entered as Second-Claas Matter October 8, 1892, at the Post Of&ce 
at Chicago, Illinois, nnder Act of March 3, 1879. 



No. 545. 



MARCH 1, 1909. 



Vol. XLVI. 



Contents. 

PAGE 

A FAR EASTERN EXAMPLE 127 

CREATION AND CRITICISM. Charles Leonard 

Moore 129 

CASUAL COMMENT 130 

The readable quality of book lovers' books. — An 
English conception of American culture. — The 
linguistic conquests of English. — The fisherman's 
solace at sea. — Organization for the spread of 
culture. — The born story-teller. — A purveyor of 
useful knowledge. — The pride of bureaucracy. — 
The parcels post and the public library. — A nation 
without an eneyclopajdia. — The Newberry libra- 
ry's new librarian. 

COMMUNICATION 133 

St. Louis during the Civil War. Galusha Anderson. 

SOME CELEBRATED CHARACTERS OF THE 

LAST CENTURY. Percy F. Bicknell . . .134 

AMERICAN HISTORY IN AMERICAN POETRY. 

Isaac R. Pennypacker 135 

COURTS, CONGRESS, AND EXECUTIVE. James 

Wil/ord Garner 138 

THE NORTHWESTERN EMPIRE OF THE FUR 

TRADER. Lawrence J. Burpee 139 

A POET'S STUDY OF A POET. W. E. Simonds . 141 

BRIEFS ON NEW BOOKS 142 

A sane manual of hygiene. — Counsels on peace 
and happiness. — A volume of pleasant nonsense. — 
Problems of age, growth, and decay. — Art history 
of Christian Rome. — Folk-tales and legends of 
old Japan. — For the amateur print collector. — 
New England leaders in thought and action. — 
Annals of a famous theatre. 

BRIEFER MENTION 146 

NOTES 145 

TOPICS IN LEADING PERIODICALS .... 147 

LIST OF NEW BOOKS 148 



A FAR EAS TERN EXAMPLE. 

We may sometimes get the best instruction 
in our own concerns by going far afield, and 
there is a lesson even for American schools in 
the candid revelations of the writer who, in 
the last " Contemporary Review," describes the 
results of his efforts to teach English literature 
to East Indian students. The Indian Educa- 
tional Service prescribes (how dear is prescrip- 
tion to the managerial heart!) certain English 
classics for use in the instruction of ingenuous 
Mussulman and Hindu youth. " Paradise Lost," 
the odes of Keats and Shelley, " The Vanity of 
Himian Wishes," Macaulay's essay on Warren 
Hastings, and the " Breakfast Table " books of 
Dr. Holmes, are examples of the strangely- 
assorted provender thus provided. The sort of 
mental indigestion caused by this pabulum is 
amusingly illustrated by our writer, who entered 
upon his task with much enthusiasm, determined 
"to demolish what is artificial and affected in 
literature, and reverently to discover and enshrine 
what is spontaneous and true." But East is 
East and West is West, as has been remarked 
before, and our ambitious teacher was not long 
in rediscovering the fact for himself. 

He had been at his post only a few days when 
one of his students made an unconsciously happy 
emendation of Milton : 

" Hail, horrors! hail 
Infernal World! And thou, profoundest Hell 
Receive thy new Professor." 

A few days later, the " new professor" received 
some insight into the nature of his task when at 
work with a class upon " The Vanity of Human 
Wishes." In a misguided moment he ventured 
a quotation from " Adonais " for the purpose of 
effective contrast : 

" He has outsoared the shadow of our night ; 
Envy and calumny and hate and pain. 
And that unrest which men miscall delight. 
Shall touch him not, and torture not again." 

Then he questioned the class concerning the dif- 
ference in style and treatment. " What would 
you say was the characteristic of this kind of 
poetry ? " " Bombasticity," said one ; " humor," 
said another. " Good heavens ! Where?" Was 
the amazed query of the teacher. " In ' that 
unrest which men miscall delight.' The humor 
depends on incongruity." Whereupon the 



128 



THE DIAL 



[March 1, 



teacher wrote to the authorities, asking them 
to spare Shelley and Keats. " Let us be sacri- 
ficers, but not butchers." This appeal resulted 
in a prescription of more Keats (on the theory, 
evidently, that the boys must be made to under- 
stand it) including the two great odes. Here 
is a specimen result : 

" Away ! away ! for I will fly to thee 

Not charioted by Bacchus and his pards, 
But on the viewless wings of Poesy," — 

suffered paraphrase as follows : 

" Fly away and I will dog thy steps, but I will not 
come to thee by taking seat in the carriage of God of 
Wine and Leopard. I will accompany you in flying by 
reciting and writing poems." 

All this seems painfully familiar to us, not 
merely as an illustration of baboo English, which 
has amused us many a time and oft, but chiefly 
as a far-off reflection of the experience of all 
teachers here in our own native land. It is the 
same sort of thing as the classical example 
recorded by Matthew Arnold when he told us 
of the English child who gave " Can you not 
wait upon the lunatic ? " as embodying his notion 
of what Shakespeare meant by the question, 
" Canst thou not minister to a mind diseased ? " 
And the explanation, whether offered for India, 
or England, or America, is the same simple one. 
If a child be confronted with literature that is 
absolutely beyond his powers of comprehension, 
and asked to express his opinion, he will make 
just such a mess of his ideas. Yet we persevere 
in our fatuous attempt to make school children 
appreciate the things which we think they ought 
to appreciate, and then hold up our hands in 
horror at the natural consequences. It is a 
hypocritical horror, for we get just what we have 
every reason to expect, and we shall continue to 
get it until we learn the simple lesson that liter- 
ature is not to be taught as we teach algebra, 
and physics, and syntax, and geography ; is not, 
in fact, to be " taught " at all in the accepted 
sense of the word, but rather " imparted " or 
" inculcated " by the contagion of a child's sym- 
pathy, and the free response of his nature to a 
guidance so gentle that he does not feel it to be 
either coercion or restraint. 

The "English" course (we had almost writ- 
ten " curse ") which has come during the past 
quarter-century to have so tenacious a grip upon 
our school machinery demonstrates its own 
ineffectiveness year after year, but its talons are 
not relaxed. Let us rather have more and more 
of it is the cry, and perhaps we shall begin to 
get results worth mentioning. It is as if physi- 
cians should urge that, since average children 



are predisposed to certain ailments at certain 
ages, they should all be dosed alike with certain 
standard drugs, and then, finding the degree of 
ailment not perceptibly diminished, that physi- 
cians should recommend a doubling of the bolus 
or a stiffening of the black draught. Of course, 
no physician of the body could be guilty of this 
absurdity of treating his patients en bloc, but 
our physicians of the developing soul are practis- 
ing this method all the time. It is a matter in 
which individual idiosyncrasy counts for every- 
thing, and yet the individual is almost wholly 
ignored. The humane and intelligent teacher 
can do something to mitigate the evils of a pre- 
scribed literary discipline, but the system rests 
upon him like a dead weight, and the best that 
he is able to accomplish seems trifling in com- 
parison with what he knows that he might accom- 
plish were he given a free hand. 

The two ideals are as unlike as night and day. 
The irrational ideal gives the teacher a class and 
a list of texts and bids him administer the one 
to the other. The rational ideal gives the teacher 
a roving commission to explore the minds of his 
individual students, to use his own means of 
lighting up the dark places, and to experiment, 
by selecting from the whole range of literature, 
until he discovers what will prove most richly 
nutritive in each given instance. Reverting to 
our earlier metaphor, he has the whole pharma- 
copseia at his disposal, instead of being restricted 
to the use of a few standardized preparations, 
and he may engage freely in diagnosis, because 
he knows himself free to provide the proper 
treatment for each individual case. 

We do not hesitate to say that a very large 
part of the instruction in English now given in 
our schools is sheer waste of time and energy. 
It fails to create an intelligent comprehension 
of literary art or a feeling for its beauty and 
emotional significance. The facts of literature 
— its history and its mechanics — may be drilled 
into the mind by ordinary methods of teaching, 
but the spirit that gives them life is to be trans- 
mitted only by some subtler process, not capable 
of formvdation by any sort of pedagogy. As 
long as the teaching of literature is carried on 
in accordance with the rules of the system, by 
means of imposed texts and class-exercises and 
periodical examinations, it is certain to fail of 
its real purpose. Better no instruction at aU 
than instruction of the systematic kind which 
may accomplish admirable results in science, 
but which is worse than useless in aesthetics and 
ethics. If it be urged that the sort of literary 
guidance which we assert to be alone effective 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



129 



cannot be fitted into our programmes, or made 
to square with our administrative rules, we can 
only say that both programmes and rules must 
be disregarded if we wish to keep literature in 
our education at all as a vital subject. A great 
deal of pedagogical inertia will have to be over- 
come before this principle shall win practical 
acceptance, but the goal is worth striving for, 
and its ultimate attainment is beyond question. 



CREATION AND CRITICISM. 



I am far from believing that literature is only a 
criticism of life. Creation and criticism are as 
much opposed as synthesis and analysis — the put- 
ting together and the taking apart. Indeed, they 
are further removed ; for the putting together im- 
plies a conscious act, whereas the greatest effects in 
literature are given to the artist. After his work 
in assembling his materials and placing them in a 
mould is done, it requires the fusing fire of inspira- 
tion to weld them together and make them into a 
new whole. 

But it is doubtful whether anything is given to 
the artist who does not strive — whether the light- 
ning flash will descend upon any altar which is not 
heaped with combustibles. Observation, study, con- 
scious judgments, the acceptance or rejection of this 
or that quality or material, all these operations are 
necessary to the construction of a work of art, and 
they are all critical operations. It follows that a 
good literary artist must be a good critic. 

The part which the naive, the unconscious, the 
untrained faculties of man play in the production of 
literature was over-insisted upon in the criticism of 
the last century. It was held then that literature 
was the spontaneous speech of man ; that the folk- 
lores, mythologies, ballad poetry, and early epics were 
the work of natural geniuses. The great existing 
epics of the world were divided into two classes, the 
naive and the artificial. As far as they are con- 
cerned, this position is abandoned to-day. It is 
seen that as much thought and conscious art must 
have gone to the making of the "Iliad" as of 
" Paradise Lost." But still, as regards the slighter 
form of literature, the old idea of spontaneous crea- 
tion lingers. " These books were not made by fools, 
or for the use of fools," said Thomas Moore of the 
early Irish legends and poems. The beginnings of 
most literatures are lost in mist, so that we cannot 
tell how they arose or what manner of men pro- 
duced them. But the Irish and Welsh bardic sys- 
tems are revealed to us in something more than 
glimpses, and we can see that they were keenly 
critical and entirely conscious attempts to produce 
literature. Nothing in our modern world is like 
the consecration, the training, the control which these 
systems suggest — unless it may be De Maupassant's 
apprenticeship to Flaubert. The Celtic bards be- 



lieved that inspiration was a result, not a cause ; 
and their works prove that they were largely right. 
From the example of their schools it may fairly be 
argued that something of the same sort existed in 
the early life of most nations. For it is another 
mistake to suppose that the first poets of any race 
are the best. On the contrary, it takes a long time 
for the language, the ideals, the very life of a people, 
to be got into shape fit for literature. 

Leaving races and coming down to individuals, 
there are two main ways in which a writer begins 
artistic creation. One is the way of imitation : 
something in the literature of the past pleases him, 
stimulates him, and he tries to copy it. The other 
is the way of revolt : the work that is being done 
around him disgusts him, — he says, "That is not 
true, that is not life or beauty as I see them," and 
he strikes out a method of his own. The imitative 
incentive accounts for the long reigns of certain 
types or forms or styles in literature. The rebellious 
motive explains the sudden changes, reversions, or 
originations which every now and then sweep over 
literature. Some writer or group of writers revolts 
against the rule that seemed good to their fathers, 
and, drawing a third part of the kingdom of litera- 
ture after them, set up a new government, which in 
turn becomes conventional or despotic. It is obvious 
that the literature of appreciation and the literature 
of rebellion alike have their beginning in a critical 
attitude. 

The reason that the critical movements in the 
past — the ebb and flow of opinion — are not so 
apparent as they are in modern times, is that there 
was then little market for criticism as such. Authors 
published their main works, but all their preparatory 
studies and sketches were destroyed. Their private 
opinions about life and art, their shop-talk among 
themselves, their letters, were all criticism, and all 
aided in making their works what they are ; but 
whereas now all this is largely caught and preserved 
and published, in olden times it only lived as the 
rain and sunlight of the past live in the corn and 
wine they mature. Imagine a Boswell or an Ecker- 
mann for Shakespeare ! Two-thirds of modern 
criticism would have been superfluous. 

Shakespeare began with the imitative mood, — 
if, as I believe is probable, " Titus Andronicus " and 
"The Two Gentlemen of Verona" are his earliest 
works ; but in " Love's Labour Lost " he sets up the 
banner of critical revolt. Throughout this piece he 
is making fun of the existing styles in dramatic poe- 
try ; and Marlowe, Greene, Lyly, the objects of his 
previous admiration, come in for unsparing satire. 
After this he became so various and universal in the 
excellencies he aimed at and reached, that it is diffi- 
cult to follow the critical trend of his mind — to 
decide whether he is idealist or realist, conscious 
stylist or naive producer of poetry. 

Ben Jonson was a determined critic, and his plays 
are built up with rigid regard to rule and authority ; 
but criticism as a trade was hardly born in English 
literature until Dryden's time. His prefaces, which 



130 



THE DIAL 



[March 1, 



Swift declared were " writ to fill in, and raise the 
volume's price a shilling," are admirable in the 
quality they profess, and they show that he " learned 
by teaching." 

The eighteenth century in England has been called 
a critical age; but I think it is just the reverse. 
Dominated by two great writers, Dryden and Pope, 
yet not quite satisfied with them, it was afraid to 
trust itself to new or original forms of thought in 
literature, and it vacillated between servile copying 
of its master's work and feeble attempts at some- 
thing different. It was a choppy sea with no g^eat 
ground-swell on. Not until the Romantic revival 
came in sight, with its forerunners in Collins, Gray, 
Chatterton, and Blake, and its culminating kings, 
in Wordsworth, Coleridge, and Byron, was there a 
real critical movement. 

There can be no question that this movement was 
a conscious one. Wordsworth and Coleridge did 
not do their work out of impulse and feeling ; they 
were intellectually alive to the change they desired to 
bring about : Wordsworth's first poems are Popeian 
in form, and Coleridge's early pieces are mainly 
mild imitations of Gray and Collins. But they 
came together, and the flint and steel were struck to 
light a blaze of revolution. As is the case of most 
reformers, they were partly uncertain in their 
principles and partly demonstrably wrong. Late in 
life, Wordsworth declared that he never thought 
very much of his famous preface to the " Lyrical 
Ballads," and that he wrote only it to please Cole- 
ridge ; but at the time it was doubtless real and 
earnest enough to him. 

It is not worth while to go through the histories 
of the other great movements in modern literature — 
the German revolt against French models captained 
by Lessing and Herder and Goethe, the revolt of the 
French themselves under Hugo and Dumas against 
their own classical literature, the advent of the real- 
ists, and so on. My point simply is that creation in 
the main is born of criticism — that artists generally 
know what they are doing, be their deeds ever so 
mistaken ; and also that practically all writers, even 
though not swept away in any great movement, 
begin and continue their work in a critical attitude ; 
that each one has his compass and chronometer, and 
takes his bearings from day to day instead of drift- 
ing idly about on the ocean of art. 

It is an old jest that the critic is the man who 
has failed in creation. Well, then, three-fourths of 
our greatest moderns must have failed, for at least 
that proportion have left vast outpourings of criti- 
cism, either in the form of recorded conversations, 
letters, or formal treatises. Lessing is equally great 
in critical and creative work, and one might almost 
dare to say the same of Goethe. Wagner's critical 
works are a huge reservoir of good, bad, and in- 
different opinions. Hugo's deliverances are com- 
paratively few in number, but they make up in 
intensity what they lack in extent. Coleridge and 
Arnold, the two greatest English critics, are unset- 
ting stars in our poetic field. The letters of Byron 



and Keats are full of glittering nuggets of criticism, 
and there are a good many in those of Tennyson. 
In America, Emerson, Lowell, Poe, and a score of 
others are Janus-faced and have their outlook equally 
on the peace of poetry and the war of criticism. 
Among the best of modern men I can recall only 
one, Dickens, who seems to have written no criti- 
cism ; and only one absolutely great critic, Hazlitt, 
who did nothing that can be called creative work. 

Criticism would therefore seem to be almost a 
necessity to the creative artist. The Greeks sur- 
rounded their pregnant women with beautiful statues 
and pictures ; and the preoccupation with the divine, 
noble, or terrible forms and thoughts of past litera- 
ture should and undoubtedly does aid in the shaping 
of new works. But when all that criticism can do 
for an artist is wrought, there yet remains something 
that he nmst hope and pray for — the daemoniac, the 
inspirational element in art, from which comes its 
intoxicating, its enchanting spell. By this the man 
is lifted to converse with the gods, and he comes 
back with his face aglow and their language upon 
his lips. No amount of critical study or preparation 
can guarantee to him this translation of soul. But 
he can keep himself ready for it, and that is the 
chief object of criticism. 

Charles Leonard Moore. 



CASUAL COMMENT. 



The readable quality of book-lovers' books, 
of publications issued by or for associations of biblio- 
philes, is sometimes conspicuously absent. In a 
recent address on " The Functions of the Book 
Club," delivered before the Rowfant Club of Cleve- 
land, Mr. Henry H. Harper, treasurer of the 
Bibliophile Society of Boston, caused his hearers to 
sit up and pay attention by asking the startling but 
pertinent question : " Why do book clubs insist on 
bringing forth books that are the least readable ? " 
Most book-lovers, as he remarked, are collectors to 
a greater or less degree ; but many collectors who 
hoard books in considerable numbers are not book- 
lovers in the true sense. In considering the issue, 
by book clubs, of a particular sort of unfascinating 
literature, he said : " For my part, however, the 
bibliographies will be reserved till the last [in read- 
ing my own collection of books], with the fond hope 
that I shall never reach them." This by way of 
introduction, on our part, to a brief mention of the 
second volume of the " Proceedings and Papers " of 
the Bibliographical Society of America, beautifully 
printed on soft creamy papei*, wide-margined and 
rough-edged, bound in flexible boards with paper 
label — could any exterior and material qualities be 
more irresistibly attractive to bibliophiles and biblio- 
maniacs ? But is there a single one of the tribe who 
would not consider it a hardship to be forced to read 
the volume? Someone may answer that it is not 
meant to be read — only consulted. True enough. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



131 



and well that it is so. The curious consultant will 
find, among other out-of-the-way hits of information, 
the intelligence that if he is interested in the study 
of heredity in pigeons the Concilium Bibliograph- 
icum can furnish him with a list of all extant works 
on the subject. On the whole, these Proceedings 
and Papers are wonderfully scholarly, and are 
packed with information which it would be difficult, 
if not impossible, to find elsewhere. 
• • • 

An English conception of American culture, 
not much nearer the truth than many another trans- 
atlantic notion concerning things on this side the 
water, arrests the eye in the dignified pages of that 
old and authoritative literary review, " The Athe- 
naeum." Our great reading public, it seems, is 
nearly a century behind that of England in its tastes, 
but is making strenuous endeavors to catch up. 
" Naturally," says our critic, speaking of these 
readers, "they have as yet little delicacy or depth 
of taste : they are out in search of general informa- 
tion, and what they really appreciate in literature 
is its instructive qualities. A literary critic who 
intends to inform the minds of a public of this order 
must naturally refrain from writing for amateurs of 
the finer delicacies of literature, in the manner of 
Hazlitt, Lamb, Arnold, or Pater." And who is the 
literary critic that is conceived of as refraining from 
the finer delicacies in order to suit the vulgar taste ? 
It is none other than the author of the " Shelburne 
Essays " and the literary editor of " The Nation," — 
Mr. Paul Elmer More ! Mr. More, it is true, has 
some of the good old-fashioned tastes and something 
of the weighty and erudite manner of the early Edin- 
burgh reviewers, as his English critic affirms, in a 
two-column notice of the Shelburne volumes. But 
there are worse crimes than industry and learning in 
literary criticism, and one of them is harshness and 
lack of sympathy. The article (the " hurticle " one 
might well call it, borrowing Thackeray's term) 
winds up with a good sharp sting in its tail : " They 
[those for whom Mr. More is supposed to write] are 
ineffectual dilettanti in the making, and Mr. More, 
instead of purifying, enlarging, and training their 
taste, reflects it." If there are certain traits of 
readers that date back to " 1820 or thereabouts," 
there is also a certain manner of book-reviewing that 
can claim a like antiquity. 

• • • 

The linguistic conquests of English, as a 
medium of communication, are great and ever- 
increasing. Dr. Alexander Wilder, writing in advo- 
cacy (whether well or ill advised) of simplified 
spelling, notes the spread of our language all over 
the globe as an unprecedented development in the 
history of human speech. "By colonization and 
commercial intercourse," he says, " the English lan- 
guage already holds the lead in the civilized world. 
Great Britain, Canada, the United States, South 
Africa, Australia, and New Zealand are all peopled 
by English-speaking population. It is not necessary 



to enumerate other regions where also it has a firm 
foothold. Enough that where it has penetrated, 
there it has come to stay. It is the language most 
used in commercial transactions, and by the electric 
telegraph. With all its faults thick upon it, these 
agencies are operated to best purpose with its use." 
One cogent reason, ordinarily overlooked, why En- 
glish has become all but a world-language, at the 
expense of French, German, and other candidates 
for this proud preeminence, may be found in the 
British disinclination to chatter in alien tongues. 
The Russian, the Dutchman, the German, and even 
the haughty Spaniard, have a more polyglot pliability 
than the sturdy Briton, who persists in acting on the 
assumption that good Anglo-Saxon, repeated with 
emphasis if necessary, as one reiterates in louder 
tones to a deaf person or an inattentive child, will 
make his meaning clear to any foreigner he may 
encounter in his continental tours. Thus, since John 
Bull will not come to the foreigner in the latter's 
tongue, the foreigner is forced to go to John Bull 
in the language that has now become more or less 
famUiar to so large a fraction of mankind. 

The fisherman's solace at sea, when there is 
" nothing doing " in his field of business, is a good 
story-book ; or, at any rate, thus we are assured by 
Mr. Charles F. Karnopp, who is soon to be stationed 
at St. John's, Newfoundland, in charge of the 
Seamen's Institute which it is proposed to build in 
connection with Dr. Grenf ell's work in Labrador. It 
appears that eighty-five thousand fishermen and 
other toilers of the sea enter the port of St. John's 
every year, and they have a consuming appetite for 
reading matter of a light and entertaining sort, such 
as old magazines with plenty of good stories. Mr. 
Karnopp writes : " Especially during the months of 
September, October and November, hundreds and 
thousands of men are in the harbor where these 
magazines might be distributed with a great deal of 
appreciation on the part of the fishermen ; and again 
during the months of April and May, when they 
prepare for the Labrador fisheries, we could use 
thousands of magazines ; for oftentimes these vessels 
go down the coast with practically no reading matter 
at all." Evidently here is work cut out for the 
marine department of the travelling library indus- 
try ; but individual readers of this appeal will do a 
charitable deed by sending any suitable magazines 
they may be willing to part with to Mr. Karnopp at 
the rooms of the Grenf ell Association, 156 Fifth 
Avenue, New York. . . . 

Organization for the spread of culture is 
often necessary and commendable. Public-school 
education requires machinery and method. No creed, 
however spiritual, secures converts without conde- 
scending somewhat to the necessity of material 
instruments. Public libraries do not grow and 
flourish with the spontaneity of dandelions in spring. 
California, energetic and progressive, even if not 
always most wisely directing her energies, is debat- 



132 



THE DIAL 



[March 1, 



ing the establishment of county libraries to bring into 
harmonious cooperation all the public libraries of 
each county, while the county libraries themselves 
will look to the State Library as their head, and the 
State Librarian will find himself in a position of 
greatly increased importance and dignity and useful- 
ness in the general administration and supervision 
of the library interests of the entire commonwealth. 
By such completeness of organization, with the hoped- 
for aid of a special parcels post for rural book- 
delivery, it is expected that public-library privileges, 
in some form or other, will be extended to the remot- 
est dweller on ranch or fruit-farm. The beauty of 
this scheme is very appealing. Other States — 
Maryland, Ohio, Oregon — have already accom- 
plished something in the way of county action of 
this sort ; but nowhere has so elaborate a plan been 
so seriously and hopefully discussed as in California. 
Legislative action of an enlightened kind is now 
awaited. Of cotirse there are manifest dangers in 
any such centralized system of library control as that 
proposed ; but with a state librarian of talent, if not 
genius, for the task before him, what beneficial results 
may we not expect to witness ? 
• • • 

The born story-teller (for such there are, as 
well as born poets) will smile at the notion of teach- 
ing the art of writing novels. In a late number of 
" The University Monthly," of Toronto University, 
Mr. Anthony Hope Hawkins discusses the question, 
partly in reply to a newspaper assertion that " there 
are in more than one of the universities of the United 
States classes for the teaching of writing novels and 
stories." He does not call to mind any colleges or 
other schools of higher education, except the omnis- 
cient and (if we may coin the word) omni-didactic 
correspondence schools, that offer novel-writing as 
a part of the curriculum. Some of our larger uni- 
versities do, indeed, give courses in the systematic 
study of fiction as a department of literature, and 
thus may effect something toward strengthening in 
a few of their students a previously existing bent 
toward novel-writing ; but to attempt to teach 
romance would be much like trying to teach the 
wind which way to blow. Mr. Hawkins well says 
that " the idea of novel writing being turned into a 
recognized occupation or profession, such as law or 
engineering, is, to speak frankly, almost appalling "; 
and that " he would be a cruel parent who deliber- 
ately destined a plodding youth to live by the exer- 
cise of a recalcitrant imagination, and his cruelty 
would not be confined to his offspring; it might 
reach the public." ... 

A PURVEYOR OF USEFUL KNOWLEDGE is a public 

benefactor. How far the public library should spend 
its energies in the purveying of useful knowledge, 
in the form of lecture courses, special exhibitions, 
special bulletins, and so on, is more or less vehe- 
mently debated by tax-payers and others. Yet there 
are far worse uses to which municipal funds have 



been known to be put than the slaking of the thirst 
for knowledge. The Springfield (Mass.) City Li- 
brary is publishing a series of instructive notes on 
local trees that will greatly aid readers in the per- 
plexing task of naming correctly the many kinds of 
trees met with in their walks — more perplexing in 
this leafless season of the year than at other times. 
" Descriptions of, or specimens from, such trees," 
we read in the current '' Bulletin " of the library, 
" were so frequently brought to the museum [which 
is closely allied with the library] by persons wishing 
to know more about them, and so much interest was 
shown, that, in the Bulletin for December, 1906, was 
begfun a series of brief notes descriptive of some of 
the more noticeable species." Only one subsequent 
issue has failed to contain these notes, and back 
numbers are furnished on request, as far as the 
supply permits. The February issue devotes nearly 
three pages to five varieties of the birch. It also 
gives a list of thirty-two winter birds that are now 
" exhibited by themselves " in and about the city. 
• • • 

The pride of bureaucracy, or a consuming 
fondness for red tape, appears to have taken posses- 
sion of the British Museum authorities. The reading- 
room, as many of us have learned with interest from 
recent London despatches and letters, has undergone 
thorough repairs and refurbishings ; and now, it 
seems, the readers are to be no less thoroughly over- 
hauled. A late number of " The Athenaeum " con- 
tains an indignant letter from an " editor and author " 
who for thirty years has enjoyed the freedom of the 
reading-room, and is now, for the first time in almost 
a generation, unceremoniously halted at the door and 
asked to produce the ticket which he obtained so long 
ago that it is now quite worn to nothingness and thin 
air. Of course he is as well known to all the attend- 
ants as they are to one another ; but nevertheless 
he must show his passport. He has written to the 
superintendent, sarcastically recommending that if 
tickets are to be shown at the door during the holder's 
lifetime, they be made mre perenniiis — though he 
did not express himself in these Horatian terms. To 
this the high official has coldly and briefly replied 
that if his correspondent wishes to obtain a new card 
of admission he must apply in person and bring with 
him the letter communicating this ultimatum. They 
do these things differently, if not in France, at any 
rate in America. ... 

The parcels post and the public library 
will before long, it is to be hoped, join hands in 
promoting the cause of good literature. At several 
meetings of the Country Life Commission, appointed 
by President Roosevelt to make a study of rural 
conditions and devise means of improving them, the 
subject of a parcels post for rural deUvery routes 
has been considered. The League of Library Com- 
missions, representing a number of States, has 
appointed a committee to urge the matter ; and this 
committee, besides taking other action to hasten 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



138 



the desired end, has petitioned the Country Life 
Commission to include in its report a recommenda- 
tion of the proposed postal service for the following 
reasons : " Under existing conditions a wide dis- 
tribution of books for home study in rural commu- 
nities is made prohibitive through the existing high 
rates of postage, many borrowers, who would pur- 
sue courses of study, being unable to do so through 
postal exactions. Through the establishment of a 
parcels post the educational value of public libraries 
and travelling libraries will be greatly increased, as 
it will enable librarians to send individual volumes 
to patrons on rural routes at less than half the present 
cost, thus encouraging home study." The Commis- 
sion is favorably inclined, and all persons interested 
in the proposed measure are asked to use their influ- 
ence toward its adoption. 

■ • • 

A NATION WITHOUT AN ENCYCLOPEDIA must be 

nearly as rare, but perhaps not quite so happy, as a 
nation without a history. Japan appears to have 
reached her present advanced stage of civilization 
unaided by any such compendium of all knowledge. 
But the lack is now to be supplied — in fact, has 
already been in part supplied by the recent publi- 
cation of the first volume of '' The Japanese Ency- 
clopaedia," with the imprint of the prominent 
publishing-house of the Sansei-do. A garden party 
of sixteen hundred guests at Count Okuma's Waseda 
villa celebrated the event, and listened to a gratu- 
latory address from the host. Dr. Inouye Tetsujiro, 
one of the compilers, told how the great work had 
been in preparation for nine years, at the hands of 
two hundred and thirty-nine scholars, and that it 
would be completed in seven volumes of about one 
thousand pages each, embracing in all more than 
one hundred thousand subjects. This epoch-making 
publication — for such it surely is — ought to take 
rank with the immense Chinese encyclopaedia re- 
ferred to by us not long ago as one of the curiosities 
of the British Museum. 

• • • 
The Newberry Library's new librarian, to 
succeed Mr. John Vance Cheney, whose regretted 
resignation will take effect in a few months, is Mr. 
William N. C. Carlton, at present head of the Trinity 
College library, Hartford, Conn. Mr. Carlton is the 
son of an English army officer who moved to Boston 
in 1882, and he had seen service in the Watkinson 
Library of Reference, at Hartford, before taking up, 
ten years ago, his work at Trinity, where he has 
produced a finely organized and equipped library out 
of a chaos of books. Current report represents him 
as a pleasant person to deal with and a fine conver- 
sationist, and also as having a reading acquaintance 
with divers languages, especially those of Scandi- 
navia, whose literature he has made the object of 
special study. To be called to fill the chair occupied 
first by a Poole, and then by a Cheney, is no mean 
honor ; but Mr. Carlton is believed to have earned 
the promotion. 



COMMUNICA TION. 



ST. LOUIS DURING THE CIVIL WAR. 
(To the Editor of The Dial.) 

Your reviewer of my recently-published book, " The 
Story of a Border City during the Civil War," declared 
that while I am not bitter, I am so extremely partisan 
that it is doubtful if I even knew that there was 
another side than that of the unionists. 

In writing the book it was my cherished purpose to 
be non-partisan ; to relate fairly and truthfully just what 
took place in St. Louis during the period of the war. 
And no one, not even your reviewer, has shown that I 
have distorted any of the facts of that memorable 
struggle. Most of the reviewers of other journals have 
• represented my book as being quite free from partisan- 
ship. Whether it is or not must be left to the judgment 
of those who may read it. 

But as to my ignorance of the other side, permit me 
to say that I have long been quite familiar with the 
political parties and political opinions of leading men 
both North and South, and with the different construc- 
tions of the Federal Constitution. And if I had not 
been, touching elbows as I did with the secessionists of 
St. Louis during the entire period of the war, and hear- 
ing over and over again their views from their own lips, 
I must have been exceedingly didl if I failed to appre- 
hend their position. I not only knew their side but I 
have truthfully stated it in my book, especially in the 
chapter on " The Boomerang Convention." 

Your reviewer also states that I have represented the 
Southern women as coarse. But I have nowhere said 
that in my hook; that is his generalization, not mine. 
In fact, the women of St. Louis during the war were 
not divided into Northerners and Southerners, but into 
unionists and secessionists. A large number of South- 
em women were among the staunchest unionists. But 
I have not characterized the secession women as coarse. 
Many of them, especially at the beginning of the war, 
were intensely bitter, and at times some of them, not 
all, gave vehement expression to their feelings in words 
and acts that were far from ladylike, not because they 
were essentially coarse, but because they were in the 
excitement of the moment unbalanced, and in a tem- 
porary frenzy. In their calmer moments they must 
have deprecated what they had said and done. 

Tour reviewer also says that I have represented the 
unionists as persecuted by the secessionists. This is 
manifestly a mistake. No such thought ever entered 
my head. To be sure, in 1861, some secessionists shot 
down some unionists in the streets, and threatened the 
lives of others; but we never regarded such conduct, 
however dastardly and condenmable, as persecution. We 
were engaged in a desperate fight, which threatened 
the existence of our republic, and we were not so ignoble 
as to regard any suffering on behalf of our country as 
persecution. 

It seemed to me to be only fair that, in a friendly 
spirit, I should be permitted to take exception to these 
declarations of your reviewer, — declarations so foreign 
to my thought and, in my judgment, so misleading in 
reference to the character and spirit of my book. 

Galusha Anderson. 

WaMngton, D. C, February 30, 1909. 



184 



THE DIAL 



[March 1, 



C^« S«to §00hs. 



Some Celebrated Characters of 
THE liAST Century.* 



Expectation of good reading in a book of 
reminiscences by the well-knowTi and variedly- 
experienced magazine editor and art and dra- 
matic critic, Mr. J. Comyns Carr, is not 
disappointed. " Some Eminent Victorians," 
written at the close of the author's sixth decade, 
is not only pleasantly and intimately reminiscent 
of many celebrated men of the last century, but 
also receives something of added weight and 
value from the interspersed expressions of a ripe 
judgment on divers questions of art, literature, 
and the drama. A natural attachment to the 
approved standards of an earlier day declares 
itself in these carefully considered opinions. 
Science, Mr. Carr admits, has made unexampled 
progress in the last few decades ; but that art 
in its later developments is necessarily more 
excellent, he denies. He also questions the 
exclusive right of the specialist to pass judgment 
on matters of painting and sculpture, poetry 
and drama and music. Wide-ranging in his 
interests and activities, and catholic in his tastes, 
he has small sympathy with passing fads and 
short-lived enthusiasms. 

His literary favorites are designated in his 
opening chapter, where he tells us that under 
the influence of Dr. Birkbeck Hill, to whom he 
went to school, he acquired an early liking for 
Johnson that has continued unabated through 
life and is only equalled by his fondness for 
Dickens. In terms of what might by the mali- 
cious be construed as a doubtful compliment, 
Mr. Carr writes that Boswell and Dickens are 
among the books kept within reach of his bed, 
and that to no other authors does he so con- 
stantly turn when sleep is not easy to win. Early 
in his course as journalist, he enjoyed the stim- 
ulating companionship of the late J. Churton 
Collins, of whom he says : 

" Our little circle on the staff of the Globe was later 
joined by Churton Collins, now the Professor of English 
Literature at the University at Birmingham, then only 
a boy fresh from Oxford, but a boy whose mind was 
already stored with a knowledge of English literature 
such as I suppose few men of his generation boast. His 
prodigious memory both in prose and poetry I certainly 
have never encountered in another; and through many 
an evening, when he dined quietly with us in our rooms 
in Great Russell Street, did we wonder and delight to 
listen to him as he passed from author to author, not 

• Some Eminent Victorians. Personal Recollections in the 
World of Art and Letters. By J. Comyns Carr. Illustrated. 
New York : Charles Scribner's Sons. 



always reciting things of his own choice, but responding 
with equal readiness to any call that might be made 
upon him by others." 

Mr. Carr's successive connection with not a 
few of the leading London newspapers and 
reviews, and his editorship of " The English 
Illustrated Magazine " in its first years, made 
him acquainted with the chief writers and artists 
and actors of his time and country. More than 
one amusing anecdote is recorded of the unfail- 
ingly amusing Whistler, whose pride in his own 
unpopularity and whose zestful practice of the 
gentle art of making enemies are truly delightful 
to contemplate. This side of his freakish nature 
is thus touched upon by the observant writer : 

" Combat was the delight of his life, and there was 
no violence of assertion he did not love to employ if he 
thought that by no other means could he encourage an 
opponent into the dangerous arena of controversy. As 
a matter of fact, I do not think he was ever quite happy 
unless one of these pretty little quarrels was on hand, 
and whenever he suspected that any particular dispute 
in which he was engaged showed signs of waning, he 
would, I thmk out of pure devilment, cast about to lay 
the foundations of a new quarrel." 

Traits and anecdotes of Tennyson, to whose 
friendship Mr. Carr was admitted, furnish some 
pages of agreeable reading. A well-known 
characteristic of the poet and a suggestive 
observation thereon are thus recorded : 

" At our last meeting he openly expressed his vexa- 
tion at an mifavorable article that had then recently 
appeared. He questioned me closely as to what I 
thought could have been the motive of the writer, who 
for the rest was not of such a rank that his censure need 
have disturbed the poet's equanimity. * What harm 
have I ever done to him ? ' he exclaimed, in tones that 
seemed to me at the time almost childlike in reproach. 
But it is, as I have come to think, a sure hall-mark of 
genius that its weakness is very often frankly avowed. 
It is a part of that inward candour that makes for 
greatness, the petty price that we have to pay for the 
larger and nobler revelation. Lesser spirits can often 
contrive to hide their littleness, but in the greatest it is 
nearly always carelessly confessed." 

The following comparison is worth quoting, 
partly because it is the fruit of a personal expe- 
rience that, in some diegree at least, many will 
find to be the direct opposite of their own : 

" At the time when I first met Tennyson, I think 
Robert Browning had won my larger admiration. I 
thought him the greater poet of the two — I no longer 
think so now; and the very quaUties which so strongly 
attracted me as a youth have since proved in themselves 
t9 be the source of my altered judgment. It seems like 
a paradox, but I believe it to be none the less true, that 
it is the intellectual quality in verse that first most 
strongly attracts the younger student of poetry. So at 
least it was in my case. The complexity of thought, 
even the obscurity of expression which marks so much 
of Browning's work, had for me then the strongest 
fascination. . . . And although the spell he then exer- 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



186 



cised over my imagination still in some degree survives, 
I find myself now asking of poetry less and less for any 
ordered philosophy of life, and more and more for life 
itself. ... In every art the last word is simplicity. 
There is no phase of thought or feeling rightly admis- 
sible into the domain of poetry that the might of genius 
may not force to simple utterance. It is this which 
constitutes the final triumph of all the greatest wizards 
of our tongue, of Shakespeare as of Milton, of Words- 
worth no less than of Keats. All of them found a way 
to wed the subtlest music with the simplest speech, 
striving with ever-increasing severity for that chastened 
perfection of form which stands as the last and the 
surest test of the presence of supreme poetic genius." 

Browning, therefore, he in the end found want- 
ing in "that faultless music which alone can 
give to verse its final right of survival." 

Actors and their idiosyncrasies yield matter 
for many an interesting page in the book. On 
one occasion, when W. E. Henley had delivered 
himself of an adverse criticism on Irving's imper- 
sonation of Macbeth, the actor, after patiently 
biding his time, at last caught his opponent off 
his guard and thus insinuated his rapier in the 
other's vitals : 

" ' I notice,' he said, speaking to Henley in that tone 
of reverie which with him always concealed an immi- 
nent blow, * that you do not approve of my conception 
of Macbeth. Tell me now, for I should be interested to 
hear it, how would you play Macbeth if you were called 
upon to present the character on the stage ? What is 
your conception? ' Henley was hardly prepared for such 
an invitation, and as we sat in expectation of what he 
would have to say, it was easy to perceive that the critic's 
destructive method, which at that time was uppermost 
in him, could not suddenly readjust itself to the task of 
offering any coherent appreciation of the character which 
Irving, according to his allegation, had misinterpreted." 

The author's recollections of artist friends, 
especially of Rossetti, Burne-Jones, Holman 
Hunt, Millais,Leighton, and Frederick Walker, 
are among the pleasantest in the book. The 
history of English painting of that period is not 
wanting in incident, and Mr. Carr, as a promi- 
nent art critic of the time, is well equipped to 
tell the story. Some rare and curious illustra- 
tions are reproduced to heighten the interest — 
among them two comical drawings by Burne- 
Jones, executed in a style to suit the supposed 
taste of the great British public. " But even 
in these essays in the grotesque," comments his 
friend, " and in the lighter and sometimes very 
graceful fancies which he would illustrate so 
easily and so rapidly for our amusement, or for 
the delight of our children, there was always an 
unfailing sense of composition and design." 
There was a certain inevitable beauty in the 
ordered arrangement of line that could not de- 
sert him even when, as he often delighted to do, 
he undertook to caricature his own style. 



Mr. Carr enjoys the advantage of being able 
to write, in a book like this latest of his, from 
what might be called a composite standpoint. 
Art, literature, the stage, and the realities of 
many phases of life itself, contend in him for 
supremacy of interest. In him, too, is to be 
found that union of the journalist and the litte- 
rateur now becoming every day more rare as our 
newspapers confine themselves increasingly to 
the sensational reporting of daily horrors and 
other startling events. His long practice as 
writer for such journals as the Manchester 
" Guardian " and " The Saturday Review," 
"The Art Journal" and "The Portfolio," 
insures the quality of his work in the unfortu- 
nately over-crowded domain of autobiography 
and reminiscence. He writes with manifest 
ease and rapidity, and such flaws as a critic 
might detect in his pages are of a trivial nature. 

The clear type, appropriate illustrations 
throughout, and generally attractive appearance 
of the volume are not to be dismissed without a 
commendatory word. Percy F. Bicknell. 



Americax History in American 

POKTRY'^.* 



From public and private records, letters, and 
other contemporaneous evidence, the student 
arrives at one conception of history; from the 
writings of the general historians he often arrives 
at another ; while from the poetry of a period, 
inspired by public events, he can often see the 
emotions of a people at play, and may come to an 
understanding of the spirit which has produced 
revolutions and wars such as is to be derived 
from no other source. It is of the first import- 
ance, therefore, that the compiler of a poetical 
anthology so ambitious in scope as to cover 
the whole period of American history should 
have an accurate understanding of the different 
influences which have come into play in the 
development of the country, that his sectional 
preferences and sympathies should be kept in 
subordination so that no underlying preconcep- 
tion or purpose shall be permitted to control or 
direct his work, and that his view should be 
as broad as the nation. A certain standard of 
poetic excellence he must maintain, as a matter 
of course ; but this being satisfied, he should use 
his material as it comes to his hand, letting it 
tell its own story, — not shaping it by inclusion 
or exclusion so as to exalt one influence or 

• Poems op American History. Edited by Burton E. 
Stevenson. Boston : Houghton Mifflin Co. 



136 



THE DIAL 



[March 1, 



undervalue another. To the extent that he 
yields to the temptation to do this latter, to that 
extent he fails in his task. 

It was the yielding to such a temptation 
which so largely destroyed the value of the late 
Edmund Clarence Stedman's " American An- 
thology." Stedman himself was already old and 
ill ; but he seems to have permitted his assist- 
ants to be carried away with two ideas which 
had a basis, partly commercial and partly sen- 
timental, the one idea being that as little as 
possible should be included which was hostile 
to England, and the other that there should be 
excluded poetry which was hostile to the South. 
At the same time, sentiment which was entirely 
ladylike was permitted to give a tone to the 
whole, not calculated to increase public respect 
for the intellectual vigor of American verse. 
Our poetical anthologies of less ambitious de- 
sign, — such as those which relate to the Revolu- 
tion, the war of 1 8 1 2 , or the war for the Union, — 
have been far more satisfactory, because there 
was no instinctive or intentional interference on 
the part of the compilers to prevent the main 
purpose from shaping the end. 

Mr. Stevenson's compilation of poems relating 
to American history begins with the discovery 
of America by the Norsemen, Columbus, the 
Spaniards and their followers, carries on the 
story of the settlement of the Colonies, the En- 
glish in Virginia, the Dutch in New York, and 
after fifty-six pages reaches the coming of the 
Pilgrims to New England, and thence comes 
downward through the development of the coun- 
try, its contests with England, the Mexican war, 
the anti-slavery movement, the great civil strife 
between North and South, and the war with 
Spain, to such recent occurrences as the San 
Francisco earthquake and the death of Grover 
Cleveland. 

The most noticeable omission — an omission 
of more significance than Stedman's failure to 
include in his Anthology any poem by that true 
New England poet Hiram Rich, or by the New 
York humorist John G. Saxe — is the absence 
of all poetry inspired by the civilization of 
Pennsylvania. As late as Whittier's time, the 
New England poet could write of it that he 
thought it was the highest civilization he had 
ever seen. There is not a line from Francis 
Daniel Pastorius, the author of America's first 
public protest against slavery; or from Whittier's 
fine poem on Pastorius, of which the poet him- 
self wrote that it was a better poem than " Snow 
Bound," but that the public would never find it 
out. There is nothing from Bayard Taylor or 



any other poet relating to the Revolutionary 
battlefields in South-eastern Pennsylvania — 
an omission which assumes greater significance 
when it is recalled that of the nine battles in 
which Washington was in command of the 
American troops engaged, seven of them were 
contests for the possession of Philadelphia, where 
also Washington spent seven of the eight years 
during which he was President. Of Pastorius, 
a recent writer has said that he was not coarse 
like John Smith, uncouth like Peter Stuyvesant, 
or narrow like Cotton Mather. Professor 
Learned's recent life of him, in showing the 
facility with which he used the German, English, 
Dutch, Italian, Spanish, Latin, and Greek lan- 
guages, his training in the universities of Europe, 
and the wide range of topics which he discussed, 
establishes his right to be called the most learned 
of Americas colonists. His patriotic address 
to the posterity of the colony which he founded 
breathes a loftiness of spirit sadly lacking in 
much of the unimaginative verses which have 
crowded his poetry out of the present volume, 
and which have thus been invited to assist in the 
commission of an historical sin that cannot be 
condoned. 

Mr. Stevenson's obvious motive in the elim- 
ination of Pastorius has been to begin the anti- 
slavery movement with Garrison, leading off 
with Whittier's tribute to Garrison in 1833. 
The compiler's note to this poem says: " Finally, 
in December 1833, the American Anti-Slavery 
Society was organized at Philadelphia." His- 
torically, of course, this is a thoroughly unscien- 
tific treatment of the theme. Important as was 
Garrison's work, he was not a forerunner of the 
anti-slavery movement. Following the protest 
framed by Pastorius in 1688, the adoption of 
its principles by the Quakers, and their spread 
through the States, the first Abolition society 
was organized in Philadelphia in 1774. By 
1794 there were enough Abolition societies 
throughout the States to justify a national organ- 
ization, and delegates from Connecticut, New 
York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, 
and Maryland met in convention in Philadel- 
phia, where they met thereafter annually. Soon 
Rhode Island, Virginia, and Tennessee sent 
delegates. Massachusetts united in the move- 
ment long afterwards, in 1823, and the Under- 
ground Railroad was in full operation at the 
time when it would appear from Mr. Stevenson's 
anthology that the movement had only begun. 
The development of the Abolition movement has 
been weU described in William Birney's Life of 
James G. Birney. Its beginning was most 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



137 



adequately reflected in Whittier's poem on 
Pastorius, the absence of which from these 
pages can hardly have been accidental. 

How hard Mr. Stevenson's local predilections 
have required him to strain the course of history 
is earlier shown by his inclusion of Longfellow's 
"Hymn of the Moravian Nuns of Bethlehem " 
in a chapter headed " The War in the South." 
In good poetry, historical inaccuracy may be 
overlooked. Whether Paid Revere carried the 
news of the British march, or his story was but 
an old man's confusion of events, or whether 
Barbara Frietchie actually waved a Union flag 
over the heads of Stonewall Jackson's troops 
in Frederick, is perhaps not of supreme import- 
ance ; but it is required of the compder of so 
ambitious a work as the present one that his 
selections shall not pervert the orderly sequence 
of history, that the poems shall be assigned to 
their proper geographical locations, and that 
the explanatory notes shall be accurate. 

George Parsons Lathrop's ballad, "Keenan's 
Charge," is an example of a poem in which spirit, 
movement, and skiU in construction go far to 
excuse the wdd vagaries of its statement. But 
Mr. Stevenson's notes indorsing the romance 
cannot be overlooked. He says, describing 
Stonewall Jackson's flank attack upon Hooker's 
right at ChanceUorsvdle : 

"For a moment it seemed that all was lost; then 
Pleasanton hurled the Eighth Pennsylvania Cavalry 
under Major Keenan upon the Confederate flank. The 
regiment was hurled back terribly shattered, but charged 
again and again until nearly all the men were dead or 
wounded. The Confederate advance was checked long 
enough for Pleasanton to get his artillery into position." 

This comment of the editor contains many errors. 
It was not Keenan's charge, because the regi- 
ment was commanded by its colonel, Pennock 
Huey ; Keenan was the Major, and rode with 
other regimental officers. No charge was in- 
tended, and Pleasonton did not order a charge. 
Nor were repeated charges made. The regiment 
in column, moving at a leisurely gait along a 
narrow woods road, suddenly encountered what 
appeared to be a few Confederate troops. There 
was no thought that these were Stonewall 
Jackson's corps. Colonel Huey ordered the 
trot and gallop. No line was formed, or coidd 
be formed in that narrow road. The Union 
troopers rode through a part of the advancing 
Confederate line, and discovering their mistake 
rode back as best they coidd. Many were 
killed, among them Major Keenan. General 
Pleasonton's name is misspelled Pleasanton. In 
the note on Gettysburg (page 488) the name 
of the Commander of the Union army is given 



as General George B. Meade. It is worth not- 
ing that the editor calls the Union troops 
" Federals," and he says of Longstreet's assault 
on the third day at Gettysburg that Pickett 
and his Virginians were in the van, which is 
not correct. Pettigrew's division crossed the 
Emmilsburg road in line with Pickett's troops, 
and with the troops of Trimble advanced to the 
stone wall, stayed there as long as any other 
Confederate troops, and surrendered many 
fewer men than did Pickett. Historically, it is 
as erroneous to attribute this assault to Pickett 
as it is to begin the anti-slavery movement 
with Garrison. D'Amici says that the Dutch 
abhorred that form of apotheosis which attrib- 
uted to the individual the virtues or vices of the 
masses. Mr. Stevenson seems to be fond of it, 
and manifests his fondness once more in the 
note on page 560, when he attributes the Recon- 
struction policy of the country to a '* coterie " 
in Congress. " The leader of this coterie," he 
says, " was Thaddeus Stevens." This statement 
is a reflection of a view frequently asserted by 
writers within the past few years, but it has its 
origin in the feeling of the present day, not in 
the facts of the time, as anyone who will take 
the trouble to read the news and newspaper edi- 
torials printed after the assassination of Lincoln 
may see for himseK. The Reconstruction policy 
was not the work of a coterie, but of a majority 
of Congress. It reflected the attitude of the 
country outside of the Southern States. Whether 
it was a mistaken policy or not, it was a legit- 
imate outcome of a fierce war, and in part it 
was prompted by the early attempts made in 
some of the Southern States to restore a modi- 
fied form of slavery by local laws which would 
have permitted the sale for certain terms of 
negroes convicted of minor offences. History 
can gain nothing for national unity by present- 
ing a false face. The largest tolerance concedes 
to North and South their radically different 
views, partly political, largely commercial, and 
accepts as a matter of course the acts springing 
naturally from the different positions. 

In the consideration of a collection of his- 
torical poems the presentation of history takes 
precedence over the purely poetical quality of 
the product. Mr. Stevenson's standard has been 
an adjustable one. The well-known poems are 
here. Some are preserved to-day merely because 
of their author. The supposed cleverness of 
Lowell's rhymes appealing to New Englanders 
not to enlist in the Mexican war seems to have 
evaporated. Of the unfamiliar poetry which the 
compiler has gathered with much industry, it is 



138 



THE DIAL 



[March 1, 



to be said that much of it is lacking in poetic 
atmosphere. A number of diffuse ballads by 
Thomas Dunn English are bare of poetic spirit, 
but these appear the work of genius when con- 
trasted with the contemporary verse of the 
colonial period. " The Downfall of Piracy " 
here attributed to Benjamin Franklin, " New 
England's Annoyances " (unknown), " Love- 
well's Fight," "Braddock's Fate," "Brave 
Wolfe," "A New Song Called the Gaspee " 
are a few examples of American verse brought 
to light that might well have been left buried ; 
while " Can't," by Harriet Prescott Spofford, is 
a more modern specimen of the tolerance of the 
editor. He tells the reader that the material 
gathered by him would fill four volumes of the 
size of the present one. If the quality was no 
better than these dreary outpourings of the 
rustic muse, and others like them, no one will 
regret the absence of the other three volumes. 
The conception of this volume was so excellent, 
so much of the formidable task has been accom- 
plished with patience and intelligence, and in 
spite of its faults the outcome is so useful, that 
the errors of omission and commission noted are 
viewed with regret. Isaac E. Pennypacker. 



COTTRTS, Congress, axd Executive.* 

President Woodrow Wilson's volume on the 
important' subject of Constitutional Government 
in the United States is made up of a series of eight 
lectures delivered by him at Columbia University 
last year. In his usual masterful style. President 
Wilson discusses some of the more salient fea- 
tures of the American political system from a 
" fresh point of view and in the light of a fresh 
analysis of the character and operation of con- 
stitutional government." From a consideration 
of the meaning, essential elements, and distinc- 
tive institutions of a constitutional system, he 
passes in review the constitutional development 
and present character of the United States gov- 
ernment. In a chapter on the Presidency he 
analyzes in a searching and logical manner the 
office of President of our Republic, the incum- 
bent of which he says was intended to be a 
" reformed and standardized king, after the 
Whig model." He points out that it is easier 
to write of the President than of the presidency, 
since the office varies in character and import- 
ance with the strength and personality of the 

• Constitutional Government in the United States. By 
Woodrow Wilson. Columbia University Lectures, George 
Blumenthal Foundation, 1907. New York: The Macmillan Co. 



man who fills it. Thus it is one thing at one 
time and something very different at another 
time, depending on the man and on the circum- 
stances under which he is called upon to govern. 
Some Presidents have deliberately refrained 
from exercising the full power which they might 
legally have done, either from conscientious 
scruples or because they were theorists, holding 
to the " literary theory " of the Constitution and 
acting as if they thought Pennsylvania Avenue 
should have been even longer than it really is, 
rather than practical statesmen conscious of 
power and fearless of responsibility. He esti- 
mates the importance of the office in its true 
light, when he concludes that henceforth it must 
be regarded as one of the greatest in the world, 
and that the incumbent must be one of the 
leading rulers of the earth, and not merely a 
domestic officer as was once the case. He must 
stand always, says Mr. Wilson, at the front of 
our affairs ; and the office will be as big and as 
influential as the man who occupies it. 

Following English analogies further, Mr. 
Wilson characterizes Congress as a " reformed 
and properly regulated Parliament." He dis- 
cusses, somewhat in the manner of his earlier 
work on Congressional Government, the legis- 
lative methods of Congress as compared with 
those of the British Parliament, showing how 
Congress has nothing to do with the making or 
immaking of " governments," yet how it takes 
a leading part in the conduct of government 
without assuming the responsibility of putting 
its leaders in charge of it. Evidently Dr. 
Wilson considers the English method by which 
the government (the ministry) — a body of 
experts on the practicability and necessity of 
legislation — are associated with the legislature 
in the work of legislation, a distinct improvement 
upon the American method according to which 
the separation of legislative and executive func- 
tions is strictly maintained. In its effort to 
make itself an instrument of business, to per- 
form its function of legislation without assist- 
ance or suggestion, to formulate its own biUs, 
digest its own measures, originate its own poli- 
cies, Mr. Wilson declares the House of Repre- 
sentatives has in effect silenced itself (p. 109). 
In his estimate of the Senate, the author shows 
a spirit of fairness and insight too often lack- 
ing in treatises on American government. The 
Senate, in his opinion, has been too much mis- 
imderstood and traduced and too little appre- 
ciated. Those who criticize this body because 
in some cases it represents " rotten boroughs ' 
instead of population, fail to grasp the real 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



139 



situation. The element of population is duly 
represented in the Lower House ; while the 
Senate is intended to represent regions of 
country, or rather the political units of which 
the nation is composed. It is no argument to 
say that because these units are sparsely settled 
they should be less represented than the older 
and more populous regions. They have the 
same economic interest in the general policy of 
the "government that the older regions have. 
Sections therefore, irrespective of population, 
especially in a country with such physical vari- 
ety as ours, and consequently possessing such 
widely different social, economic, and even polit- 
ical conditions, must be represented as weU as 
masses of population. As a body, moreover, the 
Senate, in virtue of its peculiar construction, 
fills a place and subserves a purpose unique 
and indispensable. 

The discussion of the Senate and House of 
Representatives is followed by a consideration 
of the Courts, which constitute the " balance- 
wheel of the whole constitutional system." The 
distinctive functions and methods of procedure 
peculiar to the American judicial system are 
contrasted with those of England, and the merits 
and demerits of each are analyzed. In discuss- 
ing the efficiency of the American system, Mr. 
Wilson raises the question whether our courts 
are as available to the poor as to the rich, or 
whether, in fact, the poor are not excluded by 
the cost and length of judicial processes. Thus, 
he says : 

" The rich man can afford the cost of litigation; what 
is of more consequence, he can afford the delays of trial 
and appeal; he has a margin of resources which makes 
it possible for him to wait the months, it may be the 
years, during which the process of adjudication will 
drag on and during which the rights he is contesting 
will be suspended, the interests involved tied up. But 
the poor man can afford neither the one nor the other. 
He might afford the initial expense, if he could be secure 
against delays; but delays he cannot abide without ruin. 
I fear that it must be admitted that our present pro- 
cesses of adjudication lack both simplicity and prompt- 
ness, that they are imnecessarily expensive, and that a 
rich litigant can almost always tire a poor one out and 
readily cheat him of his rights by simply leading him 
through an endless maze of appeals and technical de- 
lays" (page 153). 

Most of us will agree with him that it is a 
shame and a reproach that we have not brought 
our courts nearer to the needs of the poor man 
than they are, and that the most pressing reform 
of our system lies in this direction. 

In two final chapters, President Wilson con- 
siders the relation of the States to the Federal 
Government and the subject of Party Govern- 
ment. Apparently he does not sympathize with 



some of the recent tendencies toward Centrali- 
zation. Of the Federal Child-Labor biU which 
was before the last Congress, he observes that 
if the power to regulate commerce between the 
States can be stretched to include the regulation 
of labor in mills and factories, it can be made 
to embrace every particular of the industrial 
organization and activities of the country. 
Doubtless it could ; and it might be better for 
the people, for whose welfare government is 
created, if it did embrace some of them. But 
as to this, there is a wide difference of opinion. 
James Wilford Garner. 



The Northwestern Empire of 
THE Fur Trader.* 



Under the alluring title, " The Conquest of 
the Great Northwest," Miss Agnes Laut tells the 
dramatic story of the adventurers of England 
trading into Hudson's Bay — commonly known 
as the Hudson's Bay Company. The story of 
the Hudson's Bay Company has been told before, 
but not in the same way. The histories of Dr. 
George Bryce and Mr. Beckles Willson were 
based upon what was thought at the time to be 
very full documentary material. Compared 
with the mass of original documents which Miss 
Laut has managed to unearth, by untiring per- 
severence, at Hudson's Bay House and in the 
Public Records Office, the foundation of the 
earlier histories appears meagre and inadequate. 
From the tons of manuscript journals, minute 
books, letter books, and memorial books, in the 
archives of the Hudson's Bay Company, as well 
as from the mass of hitherto unpublished mate- 
rial in the British Public Record Office bearing 
on the history of the Company, Miss Laut 
secured several thousand pages of transcripts. 
Upon these data — the narratives of the actors 
themselves, told in their own words — she has 
built her story of the Great Company, a story 
which for romantic and dramatic interest will 
challenge comparison with that of any similar 
organization in the world's history. The new 
material brought to light, and woven into the 
texture of Miss Laut's narrative, embraces not 
only a number of docimaents of which only frag- 
ments were hitherto available, but also several — 
such as the journals of Peter S. Ogden and the 
invaluable letters of Colin Robertson — whose 
very existence had not before been suspected. 
The work, which is divided into two substan- 

• The Conquest of the Great Northwest. By Agnea C. 
Laut. In two volumeB. Illustrated. New York : The Outing: 
Publishing CompanT'. 



140 



THE DIAL 



[March 1, 



tial volumes of over eight hundred pages, opens 
with an account of the four voyages of Henry 
Hudson, cuhninating in his tragic end — sent 
adrift by his mutinous crew on the waters of 
Hudson Bay. A brief description of the voy- 
age made to the Bay by Jens Munck, the Dane, 
closes this introductory part of the work — the 
story of the discovery of the gateway to the 
wide-flung territories of the Hudson's Bay 
Company. 

In succeeding chapters are imfolded the ear- 
liest beginnings of the Company itself, through 
which runs the exceedingly dramatic story of 
Pierre Esprit Radisson, fur-trader, pathfinder, 
prince of adventurers, and founder of the greatest 
and most venerable of trading corporations. 
Miss Laut has on more than one occasion 
entered the lists on behalf of this much-maligned 
explorer, and she here brings together a mass of 
entirely new material bearing upon his relations 
toward France and New France on the one hand, 
and England and the great English Company 
on the other. Not the least interesting of many 
points made clear in this portion of the narrative 
is that relating to Radisson 's second desertion 
of the French for the British flag, a desertion 
hitherto regarded as his crowning piece of 
treachery. Radisson, after serving the Company 
for a time, had gone back to his native country, 
had returned to the Bay, captured Port Nelson 
from the British fur-traders, carried away to 
Canada a fortune in furs, — which were promptly 
confiscated by Governor De La Barre, — and 
was now in Paris seeking restoration of his 
booty. Suddenly he disappears from Paris, 
and is found in London — once more in the 
service of the Hudson's Bay Company. Did he 
go as a double traitor, or was there some more 
creditable motive for his action ? Here is Miss 
Laut's explanation, as gathered from state 
documents : 

" He was sent for by the Department of the Marine, 
and told that the French had quit all open pretentions 
to the bay. He was commanded to cross to England 
at once and restore Port Nelson to the Hudson's Bay 
Company. 

" ' Openly? ' he might have asked. 

" Ah, that was different! Not openly, for an open 
surrender of Port Nelson would forever dispose of 
French claims to the bay. All Louis XIV now wanted 
was to pacify the English court and maintain that secret 
treaty. No, not openly; but he was commanded to go 
to England and restore Port Nelson as if it were of his 
own free will. He had captured it without a commission. 
Let him restore it in the same way. But Radisson had 
had enough of being a scapegoat for statecraft and 
double dealing. He demanded written authority for 
what he was to do, and the Department of Marine placed 
this commission in his hands: 



" ' In order to put an end to the Differences wh. exist 
between the two Nations of the French & English 
touching the Factory or Settlement made by Mesers. 
Groseillers and Radisson at Hudson Bay, and to avoid 
the efusion of blood that may happen between the 
sd. two nations, for the Preservation of that place, the 
expedient wch. appeared most reasonable and advan- 
tageous for the English company will, that the sd. 
Messrs. De Groseillers and Radisson return to the sd. 
Factory or habitation furnished with the passport of the 
English Company, importing that they shall withdraw 
the French wh. are in garrison there with all the effects 
belonging to them in the space of eighteen months to 
be accounted from the day of their departure by reason 
they cannot goe and come from the place in one year. 
. . . The said gentlemen shall restore to the English 
Company the Factory or Habitation by them settled in 
the sd. coimtry to be thenceforward enjoyed by the 
English company without molestation. As to the indem- 
nity pretended by the English for effects seized and 
brought to Quebec . . . that may be accomodated in 
bringing back the said inventory & restoring the same 
effects or their value to the English Proprietors.' " 

The dashing exploits of Pierre Le Moyne 
d'Iberville,from Canada, against the Company's 
posts on the Bay, form the subject of two very 
interesting chapters ; and another is devoted to 
the last days of Radisson — new facts gathered 
in London disclosing the final scenes in the life 
of the famous pathfinder. Another group of 
chapters tells the story of inland explorations 
from the Bay by men of the Hudson's Bay 
Company; Henry Kellsey's journey to the 
Saskatchewan ; the founding of Henley House ; 
Anthony Hendry's expedition to the country of 
the Blackfeet ; Samuel Hearne's journey to the 
mouth of the Coppermine river ; the founding 
of Cumberland House ; and the beginning of the 
long conflict between the Hudson's Bay and 
North West Companies for the control of the 
vast fur country of the West. In subsequent 
chapters are described the stirring adventures 
and notable explorations of some of the men of 
the Canadian company — David Thompson, 
Alexander Mackenzie, Simon Eraser, and Daniel 
Williams Harmon. Through these narratives 
runs always the underlying theme of bitter and 
ever-increasing hostility between the two com- 
panies, a conflict leading by inevitable degrees 
to such intolerable conditions that only one way 
could be found out of the morass — the union 
of the two companies. Part and parcel of this 
historic conflict, but holding an interest entirely 
its own, is the story of the coming of the col- 
onists — the founding of the Red River Settle- 
ment. Here, as elsewhere, one is struck with 
the prevalence of Scottish names. The central 
figure in the drama of Red River was a Scotch- 
man — Lord Selkirk. So also were the leaders 
of both the opposing factions, the " H. B. men " 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



141 



and the " Nor'Westers ": M'Gillivrays and 
MacKenzies and McTavishes, M'Donells and 
Erasers, McLoughlins and Robertsons. Finally, 
in a series of brilliant sketches, we have the story 
of the united companies — the Nor'Westers 
now absorbed in the older Hudson's Bay Com- 
pany — marching triumphantly across the conti- 
nent, and spreading the empire of the fur-trader 
north and south from the Russian dominions in 
Alaska to the Spanish settlements in California. 
Here we read of the imperious rule of the auto- 
cratic little Governor, Sir George Simpson ; of 
the dashing exploits of Ross of Okanogan ; of 
the explorations of Ogden in the Southwest, 
throughout what are now the States of Idaho, 
Montana, Nevada, Utah, and California ; of the 
transmontane empire of Dr. McLoughlin ; and 
of the final merging of the dominion of the fur- 
trader in the era of settlement, and the dawn of 
popidar government. 

Lawrence J. Burpee. 



A Poet's Study or a Poet.* 

Mr. Alfred Noyes's volume on William 
Morris, just issued in the "English Men of 
Letters " series, will prove a disappointment to 
many readers. It is not an easy task, perhaps 
it is impossible, to cover the multifarious activ- 
ities of so many-sided a man within a book of 
one hundred and fifty pages, the scope of which 
is definitely limited by the plan of this useful 
series ; but it is a pity that the vital facts in the 
career of Morris should have to be so scanty, 
and then be so blurred in presentation as to give 
little satisfaction to the reader. Mr. Noyes is 
doubtless justified in his contention that the 
essential factor in all these activities is the 
poetic spirit, and that the essential man is dis- 
cernible " in the poetry which was the fullest 
expression of his real self." At all events the 
author of the book has occupied himself mainly 
with a rather elaborate analysis of Morris's 
compositions. 

Any study of a poet's work by one who is 
himself recognized as a not unworthy brother of 
the guild cannot fail to be interesting whatever 
the limitations of its treatment, and it would be 
unfair to Mr. Noyes to deny him insight or 
appreciation for his theme. At the same time it 
must be stated frankly that his attitude toward 
his subject is sometimes puzzling, and one is 
often in doubt rega rding the sympathy and 

♦William Morris." By Alfred Noyes. "Engrlish Men of 
Letters " Series. New York : The Macmillan Co. 



admiration which he affirms. There is no ques- 
tion of the writer's preference for Tennyson — 
and we have no quarrel with him over his enthu- 
siasm for the last great Laureate ; but we pro- 
test that this is not the place for the avowal of 
such discipleship. The comparison of Tennyson 
with Morris is overdone ; it recurs on page after 
page, until this particular theme almost supplants 
the real theme of the essay, and reaches a climax 
in the brief concluding chapter wherein the biog- 
rapher of Morris devotes three full pages to the 
gratuitous exaltation of Tennyson as " the broad- 
est and fullest voice of his own century." This 
the most of us have long since recognized ; just 
now we are more interested in the achievement 
of the author of " Jason," " The Earthly Para- 
dise," and " Sigurd the Volsung." Indeed, we 
woidd rather hear less of Morris's debt to Tenny- 
son and more of his indebtedness to Chaucer — 
of which Mr. Noyes has surprisingly little to say. 
Perhaps we should be less impatient with these 
digressions had not the essayist expressed with 
much vim his own impatience with Mr. Mackail 
for certain suggestions which he deems " out of 
proportion except in a biography large enough 
to estimate also the exact influence upon him 
[Morris] of Bradshaw's Railway Guide." We 
wonder if Mr. Noyes's sense of proportion and 
of values is represented in the following bit of 
description. He is speaking of the personal 
appearance of Morris (page 106) : 

" He was careless about his clothes ; but it has been 
said that he only looked really peculiar when in conven- 
tional attire. One of the most charming of his sayings 
is that which he made in perfect simplicity to a friend: 
* You see, one can't go about London in a top hat, it 
looks so devilish odd.' " 

Upon the technique of the poet Mr. Noyes 
has a great deal to say that is illuminating ; 
although we think that he strains some lines of 
criticism, as when he discusses the " thin " 
verses and the " lower scale of values " in the 
chapter on " The Life and Death of Jason." 
The error here, if there is an error, lies in the 
suggestion that the verses quoted are adequately 
representative of the poem throughout. Another 
instance of this dangerous habit of generalizing 
is seen in the concluding sentence of this same 
chapter (page 71): "The cry of Medea, 'Be 
happy!' compresses into two words quite as 
much passion, anguish, and love as are con- 
tained in whole pages of Browning." 

We should, however, be doing Mr. Noyes a 
grave injustice to conclude this review without 
quoting some less debatable passage from his 
book, and one which will more clearly show the 
really appreciative position toward his subject 



142 



THE DIAL 



[March 1, 



which we are sure he would maintain. We 
quote from pages 54-55 : 

"This weaving-process with his thin verse-threads 
Morris carried out with supreme success. He threw 
away all ambition to achieve the kind of direct effects 
at which Tennyson and Wordsworth, and perhaps all 
the greater English poets aimed, and in return he 
gained an indefinable power of suggestion. In spite of 
the vast bulk of his work, it gives the impression of 
great strength in reserve, and it has something of the 
force which we usually associate with reticence. Never 
once do we feel that he is exerting himself or, to put it 
crudely, on his top-note. . . . Never, perhaps, has there 
been so successful an attempt to recapture the childlike 
faith of the pagan world in their immortals as ' The 
Life and Death of Jason.' The gods in Morris have 
something of their old opaque symbolical significance, 
which we lose altogether on the spiritual plane of 
Wordsworth or Tennyson. By reducing his whole 
world to the childlike and primitive scale of values of 
which we have spoken, he was able, alone among the 
moderns, really to 

' Have sight of Proteus rising from the sea ; 
Or hear old Triton blow his wreathed horn.' " 

W. E. SiMONDS. 



Briefs on New Books. 



It is an instructive paradox that 
t/nygiTnT''''^ health, like happiness, is best found 

when not sought, — is most enjoyed 
when least the object of concern. In recognition 
whereof, many a cult has arisen proclaiming the 
bliss of ignorance and the yet more exalted bliss of 
denial. But a paradox has two sides ; and the other 
side also has its share of recognition in the popular 
consciousness — the side which holds that health is 
a precious thing, and in these modern days is to be 
maintained by large-minded public provisions and a 
personal wisdom that is prudent but not fretful, 
serious but not fanatical, careful but not worried. 
It is well that popular books on hygiene suitable for 
the readers that frequent public libraries should be 
abundant, attractive, and authoritative. In such a 
list the recent work by Dr. C. W. Saleeby of Edin- 
burgh deserves a conspicuous place. It bears as its 
title " Health, Strength, and Happiness," a worthy 
triumvirate capable of wisely ruling the body and 
the mind. It is, in fact, a fair survey of the essen- 
tials of personal hygiene, very forcibly written, 
under a consistent perspective. The best thing about 
man is his mind, and a §ound body is the mind's 
most indispensable implement. Dr. Saleeby's book 
is full of good advice, and will not add to the 
prevalent hypochondria. Neither will it inculcate 
indifference, or a go-as-you-please attitude. It may, 
however, disappoint many who like their advice in 
pill-like doses with instructions for quick taking. It 
presents both sides of debatable questions, and does 
not make mountains out of mole-hills. Here and 
there it errs on the side of indefiniteness, and else- 
where in strenuous enforcement of personally fav- 



ored doctrines ; but that is true of every book 
reflective of a marked individuality. A popular 
book on health should set forth the point of view 
from which health is a natural issue ; it should sur- 
vey the factors upon which health depends ; it should 
state these in terms of human interest; it should 
maintain a fair perspective of the little things and 
the great; and it should remember the sorts and 
conditions of men and the diversity of human nature 
and human needs. Dr. Saleeby's book meets these 
conditions sufficiently well to warrant its admission 
to the select class of useful manuals of popular 
hygiene. (Mitchell Kennerley.) 

Counsels 07i ^'^^^ Avebury ( Sir John Lubbock he 

peace and will always be to many of us) has 

happiness. ^dded another to his already pub- 

lished volumes on the pleasures of life and the 
beauties of nature ; but his title this time is " Peace 
and Happiness" (Macmillan), and he closes with 
some very practical and pertinent remarks on inter- 
national peace and the reduction of our enormous 
military and naval establishments. The bankruptcy 
and ruin sure to follow the development of present 
tendencies are convincingly presented, as is likewise 
the certainty of violent and destructive European 
revolution, precipitated by the misery of the masses, 
unless the increasing burden of armament is re- 
duced. Jingoism and false patriotism find no friend 
in him. "We talk of foreign nations," he says, 
" but in fact there are no really foreign countries. 
The interests of nations are so interwoven, we are 
bound together by such strong, if sometimes almost 
invisible, threads, that if one suffers all suffer; if 
one flourishes it is good for the rest." Illustrative 
instances are added in proof. The present foolish 
Anglo-Teutonic tension is touched upon in a common- 
sense way. In a province more peculiarly his own, 
the pleasures of nature-study, the author has this to 
say on the much-discussed question of intelligence 
in animals : " My own experiments and observations 
have led me to the conclusion that they have a little 
dose of reason, though some good naturalists still 
deny it." The "peace and happiness " so agreeably 
presented in these chapters are by no means the 
peace and happiness of idleness and cloistered medi- 
tation. " Our clear duty is to work in the world, to 
remain of the world, and yet to keep ourselves as 
far as possible unspotted by the world — though no 
doubt this is far from easy." Health is necessary, 
and "most people will keep fairly well if they eat 
little, avoid alcohol and tobacco, take plenty of fresh 
air and exercise, keep the mind at work, and the 
conscience at rest." As in the author's previous 
volumes on kindred subjects, there is here also an 
abundance of quotation, especially from Shakespeare. 
The familiar six lines on ministering to a mind dis- 
eased are in deserved favor with him, so much so 
that he quotes them twice, as he does also Scott's 
well-known quatrain beginning, " Like the dew on 
the mountain." The well-furnished note-book, one 
cannot but imagine, lies ready at Lord Avebury's 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



143 



hand as he writes. The popularity of his work of 
this sort is noteworthy: not far from a quarter- 
million copies of the first part of " The Pleasures 
of Life " are said to have been sold, while the second 
part is in its second hundred thousand, and "The 
Beauties of Nature " lags not far behind. A curi- 
ous appearance is given to the title-page of his new 
book by the nineteen lines (in fine print and mostly 
in abbreviations and initials) of titles and honors 
appended to the author's name — a flourish not 
exactly in harmony with our conception of his 
character. 

, , . Ex nihilo nihil fit. Mr. Hilaire 

A volume of ■' 

pleasant Belloc chooses " nothing " as the 
nonsense. subject of a slender volume of 
essays " On Nothing, and Kindred Subjects " 
(Button) — and naturally produces nothing of much 
weight or importance. His essays are little longer 
than Bacon's, and his whimsicalities of style have 
now and then an antique turn that may, however 
remotely, suggest the great Elizabethan. More 
modern in its suggestion, however, is the occasional 
yielding to the present strange fascination of the 
paradoxical and the irrational; so that if Lord 
Bacon is brought to mind on one page, Mr. Chester- 
ton is sure to greet us on turning the leaf. The 
very title of the book is an absurdity, of course, and 
the dedicatory pages (addressed to Mr. Maurice 
Baring) which attempt to explain its selection and 
application, fairly riot in pleasant nonsense. The 
writer pretends to delight in what nature is supposed 
to abhor, — a vacuum. It pleases his humor to say : 
" I never see a gallery of pictures now but I know 
how the use of empty spaces makes a scheme, nor 
do I ever go to a play but I see how silence is half 
the merit of acting, and hope some day for absence 
and darkness as well upon the stage." Among the 
topics chosen for treatment as " kindred " to noth- 
ing are these : " On Ignorance," " On Advertise- 
ment," " On a House," " On a Dog and a Man also," 
" On Railways and Things," " On a ChUd who Died," 
" On the Departure of a Guest," and " On Coming 
to an End." The book is written in a fine spirit 
of carelessness and spontaneity ; nevertheless the 
author need not have pushed laxity to such an 
extreme as in the following : "... As he had 
walked faster than me ... so now I walked faster 
than him." 

An appreciation of the biologist's 
attitude toward the problems of life 
may be admirably acquired, though 
at the usual cost of close attention, by a reading of 
Professor Charles Sedgwick Minot's Lowell lectures 
on the problems centering about the persistent ques- 
tions of age, growth, and final dissolution. The 
painstaking minuteness of observation of the minutest 
units of the microscope seems at first sight remote 
from the arts of regulation of life ; but in such terms 
are the secrets of nature to be deciphered. The 
biological provisions for maturing become in another 
aspect the signs of senescence. We grow old because 



Problems of 
age, growth, 
and decay. 



we have the power to grow. Growth is differentia- 
tion ; and when this has reached its limit, the adult 
state is present. Yet in addition, the maintenance 
of this adult state is in turn conditioned by the rate 
of change to which the cells are still subject. The 
two elements in the vital unit, the nucleus and the 
protoplasm, in Professor Minot's view, play opposite 
parts : rejuvenation depending upon the increase of 
the nuclei, and senescence upon the increase of the 
protoplasm. The problem once formulated, itself 
divides, like the progressive segmentation which it 
uses for illustration. The differentiation between 
lower and higher structures ; the determination of 
the longer-lived and the shorter-lived species and 
individuals ; the conception of death as a biological 
penalty for richness of differentiation ; the limit of 
power as set by age-changes ( the popular discussion 
aroused by Dr. Osier in citation of TroUope's fixed- 
period notion); the curious anomalies of rejuvenation 
and reproduction of parts ; the provision for the con- 
tinuance of life by the sequestration of cells in their 
young stages for transmission to the next generation, 
and so on, — these are the circumstances of which 
we are the creatures, and in these terms must we 
learn to decipher the conditions of our fate so far as 
we are ready to profit by the biologist's attitude. Dr. 
Minot combines with the equipment of technique the 
philosophical power of its interpretation, and thus 
offers to the studious a profitable and clear presenta- 
tion of the motives and methods of modern bio- 
logical research. (Putnam.) 

At first glance it might appear that 
cnr^uTRLe. ^^ofessor Arthur L. Frothingham, 

of Princeton University, in his new 
work entitled "The Monuments of Christian Rome" 
(Macmillan), was but retracing the ground covered 
by Mr. Walter Lowrie's " Monuments of the Early 
Church," which came out about eight years ago. 
More deliberate investigation, however, reveals the 
fact that, while the earlier book dealt with a period 
beginning with the end of the first century of the 
Christian era and ceasing with the development of 
Byzantine Architecture before the end of the sixth 
century. Professor Frothingham treats of the period 
from (ilonstantine in the fourth century to the Renais- 
sance early in the fifteenth. The historical sketch 
contained in the first eight chapters is a history of 
the city, with the changes it underwent in the reigns 
of Constantine and his successors, after the Gothic 
invasion, under the Byzantine influence, as a Carlo- 
vingian city and in the Dark Age from the death of 
Pope Formosus in 896 to the accession of Pope 
Leo IX. in 1049, by the fire of Robert Guiscard, 
under the great mediaeval Popes, and during the 
Papal Exile. This survey of the city, derived from 
a careful and exhaustive study of the documentary 
history and from years of exploration in situ, enables 
the author to present, in the second part of his vol- 
ume, some fascinating chapters on Basilicas, Cam- 
panili, Cloisters, Civil and Military Architecture, 
Sculpture and Painting, with accounts of some of 



144 



THE DIAL 



[March 1, 



the Roman artists and of art in the Roman Province 
and the Artistic Influence of Rome. It is in his 
chapter on Painting that Professor Frothingham 
discusses the personality of Pietro Cavallini, in the 
light of the recent theories advanced in opposition 
to Vasari's statement that Cavallini was the pupil 
and assistant of Giotto. The more recent view 
makes Cavallini the partner, perhaps the predecessor, 
of Giotto in the revival of painting which goes 
by Giotto's name. Professor Frothingham gives 
ample reasons for the acceptance of the new view. 
The book is of inestimable value as an archaeological 
handbook. Although intended for use in the class 
room, its attractive style and wealth of illustration 
will make it scarcely less acceptable to the general 

reader. . 

Foik.taies and ^^- Richard Gordon Smith is an 
legends of Englishman addicted to wandering. 
old Japan. Yov the last nine years he has spent 
most of his time in Japan, ostensibly collecting ethno- 
logical lore and objects of natural history for the 
British Museum, incidentally coming in contact with 
the Japanese people, — fishermen, farmers, priests, 
doctors, children, governors, — entering into their 
modes of life and thought, and learning their stories 
and legends. Some of these he has now transcribed 
from notes made in his diaries ; and a Japanese friend, 
Mr. Mo-No- Yuki, has elaborated the sketches accom- 
panying the notes into beautiful color-plates. There 
are some sixty of these, — at least one for every 
story, — and their mythical subjects and general 
treatment give them much the effect of reproduc- 
tions of old color-prints. They lend to the volume, 
which is entitled " Ancient Tales and Folk-Lore of 
Japan " (Macmillan), the decorative touch that seems 
to belong by right to everything Japanese, and add 
appreciably to the interest and local coloring of the 
tales. These latter are of miscellaneous subject- 
matter, — stories of trees, flowers, mountains, the sea, 
and historic places. We miss an introductory chapter, 
which should discuss the origin of the tales, their 
relation to western folk-lore, and their place in 
modern Japanese life. In general they may be said 
to have all the characteristic ingredients of the prim- 
itive tale. Ghosts walk, tree-nymphs and mermaids 
marry mortals, beautiful gods steal the love of hapless 
maidens, low-born suitors outwit tyrannical fathers, 
reincarnations and miracles puzzle simple folk. But 
the Japanese flavor gives novelty to the familiar 
combinations. 

It is cheering to learn that there has 
pr^coSr r««««% ^^^^ ^revival of interest 

in the art of etching, with its related 
arts of mezzotint " scraping," wood engraving, and 
lithography ; an interest which seems to have been 
suspended but a few years ago, when the numerous 
photo-mechanical processes for the cheaper and more 
rapid reproduction of pictures came into being. Mr. 
Frank Weitenkampf 's manual entitled " How to 
Appreciate Prints" (Moffat, Yard & Co.), which 
gives us this assurance, is therefore a more timely 
volume than might at first appear. To its chapters 



on the history and technique of the various processes 
by which prints are produced — etching, line engrav- 
ing, stipple, mezzotint, aquatint, wood engraving, 
lithography, etc., upon which the most recent books 
are nearly twenty years old, — he adds a chapter 
on the photo-mechanical processes which caused the 
suspension in the practice of the former methods of 
reproduction, and in the popular interest in prints 
and print collecting. These chapters are all sub- 
servient to the real purpose of the book as implied 
in the title ; and the appreciation of prints, with the 
ways in which intelligent appreciation may be cul- 
tivated, is kept constantly in view. No one can 
read this book without taking a more intelligent and 
discriminating interest in the arts which find their 
expression in the work of the graver. 

New England From "The Harvard Graduates' 
thought^ Magazine " are reprinted in book 

and action. form eleven short sketches — obit- 

uary notices, and eulogistic rather than critical — 
of as many distinguished sons of that university who 
have died within the last fifteen years. " Sons of 
the Puritans : A Group of Brief Biographies " is the 
collective title, and the volume is published by the 
American Unitarian Association, whose president, 
Dr. Samuel A. Eliot, contributes an Introduction. 
The opening chapter is on the late Senator Hoar, a 
typical Puritan of his generation, combining in a 
high degree those two excellent qualities, idealism 
and a sense of responsibility. Mr. Francis C. Lowell 
is the writer, and is followed by Mr. Henry P. Walcott 
in a short account of Dr. Morrill Wyman, Mr. Ezra 
R. Thayer on Judge Horace Gray, President Charles 
W. Eliot on Professor Charles Franklin Dunbar, Dr. 
Charles Carroll Everett on Phillips Brooks, and, 
finally (we omit a few of the titles), by Mr. George 
R. Nutter on that young leader in business enterprise, 
charity organization, and the promotion of education, 
the late William Henry Baldwin, Jr. Each chapter 
is accompanied by a good portrait of its subject, and 
the volume forms a worthy memorial of the eleven 
men whose names adorn its pages. 

What Mr. Cyril Maude did for one 
fZ:us teatre. ^i the most f amous of English play- 

houses, the Haymarket Theatre, Mr. 
Eugene Tompkins has done for one of the cradles 
of the drama in America, in his "History of the 
Boston Theatre" (Houghton), compiled with the 
assistance of Mr. Quincy Kilby. It is a work which 
will interest historians, connoisseurs of old prints and 
photographs, actors, and playgoers. Mr. Tompkins 
points out that no other theatre in the world has 
ever sheltered so wide a range of celebrities, from 
tragedians and grand opera stars to negro minstrels 
and vaudeville performers, from statesmen and clergy- 
men to athletes and pugilists. It has been the recog- 
nized home of operatic representations of the highest 
order, of brilliant ballet spectacles, and of the most 
realistic melodramatic productions. The author draws 
upon his own recollections of twenty-three years as 
manager of the theatre of which he writes, as well 



1909.] 



THE DIAl^ 



145 



as memories of many talks with his father, who was 
connected with the Boston Theatre before him and 
from whom he inherited a taste for theatrical mat- 
ters ; and, more fortunate than most chroniclers, he 
had at hand the bound volumes of its programmes, 
as well as the statement-books showing the receipts 
at all performances. So voluminous was the data at 
hand that one wonders how, in the limited space, 
Mr. Tompkins has prevented his work from becoming 
a mere catalogue ; yet, in a sense, he has compiled 
a vade mecum of the drama in America for the last 
half century. The book is divided into practically 
fifty chapters, each chapter being devoted to a yearly 
season. As a work of reference it is invaluable 
because, in addition to its allusions to plays and 
players, it has been indexed with particular care — 
the index of portraits and illustrations approximating 
some 1400 entries. It is a comprehensive record of 
living and departed public idols ; and it is easy to 
perceive that the compilation of the book has been a 
labor of love to its author. Many of the illustrations 
are from rare photographs, obtained through patient 
research, and now reproduced for the first time. 



BRIEFER MENTION. 



" Early English Romances in Verse," translated into 
modern prose by Miss Edith Rickert, gives us a collec- 
tion of eight famous love-stories, including " Floris and 
Blanchefleur," « Sir Orfeo," " The Earl of Toulouse," 
and " The Squire of Low Degree." The book is included 
in the " Mediaeval Library," as is also the companion 
volume of romances of friendship, which gives us Miss 
Rickert's versions of " Amis and Amiloun," " The Tale 
of Gamelyn," and four others of like character. Messrs. 
Duffield & Co. are the publishers of these quaint volumes. 

The " Musician's Library " of the Oliver Ditson Co. 
is now notably enriched by two volumes of music by the 
greatest of Norwegian composers. The " Larger Piano 
Compositions of Edvard Grieg " is edited by Mrs. Bertha 
Feiring Tapper, and " Fifty Songs by Edvard Grieg " 
is edited by Mr. Henry T. Finck. The former volume 
includes a group of four " Humoresques," three "Sketches 
of Norwegian Life," the suite " From Holberg's Time," 
the sonata in E minor, the ballade in G minor, and the 
concerto in A minor. Mr. Finck's volume illustrates the 
entire range of Grieg's lyrical composition, the dates of 
the songs running from 1863 to 1900. The introductory 
matter in both these volumes is judicious and interesting. 

The late Amos G. Warner's excellent treatise on 
« American Charities " (Crowell) is without question the 
classic work on the subject, although some phases of the 
field of charity have been treated more recently by other 
writers. This book has great vitality, and its usefulness 
has been prolonged by the admirable editorial service of 
Professor Coolidge, who has brought the statistics and 
other materials up to date in a most careful manner. 
The biography by Professor G. E. Howard is a welcome 
feature of this new edition. The contents of the original 
volimie are too familiar to require a survey at this time. 
The bibliography is a valuable aid in the further study 
of the problem. The book can be recommended to stu- 
dents as one of highest value and importance. 



Notes. 



Mr. W. P. Thomson, for several years with Messrs. 
Doubleday, Page & Co., has joined forces with the 
Francis D. Tandy Company of New York, which firm 
will hereafter be known as the Tandy-Thomas Company. 

From the Cambridge University Press (Putnam) we 
have Volume VI of Beaumont and Fletcher, as edited 
by Mr. A. R. Waller; and an edition of " The Posies " of 
George Gascoigne, edited by Professor John W. Cunliffe. 

"New Hampshire as a Royal Province," by Dr. 
William Henry Fry, is a bulky monograph of over five 
hundred pages, published by Columbia University in the 
series of " Studies in History, Economics, and Public 
Law." 

As their leading novel of the Spring season, the 
Houghton Mifflin Company will pubh'sh early this month 
" The Story of Thyrza," by Miss Alice Brown, whose 
recent novel, " Rose MacLeod," has had such marked 
success. 

" The Rhetoric of Oratory," by Professor Edwin 
DuBois Shurter, is a systematic treatise upon the form 
of composition, with an appendix of specimen college 
orations which students will find useful for practical 
guidance. The work is published by the Macmillan Co, 

Mr. Clarence F. Birdseye will issue in the near future 
through the Baker & Taylor Co. an important pubhcation 
entitled " The Reorganization of our Colleges." Mr. 
Birdseye will be remembered as the author of a recent 
book entitled " Individual Training in our Colleges." 

The sudden death of Will Lilhbridge at his home at 
Sioux Falls, South Dakota, was recently announced. 
Mr. LUlibridge is best known for his story " Ben Blair," 
which was published by Messrs. A. C. McClurg & Co. 
four years ago, and had a wide success. 

Volume IV. of the " Storia do Mogor," by the 
Venetian Niccolas Manucci, as translated for the 
" Indian Text Series " by Mr. William Irvine, is now 
imported by Messrs. Dutton. This volume completes 
the work, which is a history of Mogul India during the 
last half of the seventeenth century. 

Herr C. Hulsen's handbook of " The Roman Forum," 
translated by Mr. Jesse Benedict Carter, is now pub- 
lished in a second edition by Messrs. G. E. Stechert & Co. 
It is an indispensable book for the tourist in Rome, and 
of almost equal value for reference, since it embodies 
the latest results of excavation and interpretation. 

The J. B. Lippincott Co. publish a revised edition, 
with an introduction by Mr. Cyrus Elder, of Spurzheim's 
"Phrenology," first given to the American pubhc 
seventy-five years ago. Pseudo-science has an evident 
advantage over science in the fact that its expositions 
do not easily become out-dated by the advance of 
knowledge. 

The widow of the late William Henry Drummond, 
the poet of the Canadian habitant, has selected from his 
literary remains enough poems and sketches to mako 
a sizable volume, called "The Great Fight," now 
published by Messrs. G. P. Putnam's Sons. Mrs. 
Drummond writes a memoir, and Dr. S. Weir Mitchell 
provides a tributary poem. 

The first voliune of a work to be called " English 
Literature in the Victorian Era: A Biographical and 
Critical History," by Dr. Robertson Nicoll, will be pub- 
lished in the autumn. The book will run to six volumes, 
and it is hoped that they will be issued at the rate of 
one a week until its completion. We understand that 



146 



THE DIAL 



[March 1, 



Dr. NicoU has been engaged upon this task for many 
years. His main purpose has been to estimate the value 
and influence of the writers and thinkers who have done 
most to shape the direction of English thought during 
the period treated. 

The edition of Jane Austen's novels published by 
Messrs. Duffield & Co. in the " St. Martin's Illustrated 
Library of Standard Authors " is now completed by the 
addition of " Emma," " Mansfield Park," " Northanger 
Abbey," and " Persuasion," — six volumes, making ten 
altogether. Many charming illustrations in color make 
this a very desirable edition. 

The first of a projected series of encyclopaedias for 
the young, prepared by Professor Edwin J. Houston, 
will be published this year by the American Baptist 
Publication Society. The series will treat of the various 
substances and phenomena connected with such branches 
of natural science as Physical Geography, Natural Philo- 
sophy, Mineralogy, Electricity, Geology, and Chemistry. 

Early this month Messrs. Duffield & Co. will make 
the experiment of issuing a new book in paper covers, 
after the French manner. The volume, a collection of 
picturesque stories of Paris, by Helen Mackay (Mrs. 
Archibald K. Mackay), will copy precisely the French 
scheme of bookmaking in type and make-up, and the 
binding will be of paper in place of the customary 
boards and cloth. 

William Mathews, author and educator, died on Feb- 
ruary 14 at his home in Boston, Mass., in his ninety-first 
year. Among his best-known books are " Getting On in 
the World," " The Great Conversers," " Words, their 
Use and Abuse," " Hours with Men and Books," " Mon- 
day Chats," " Oratory and Orators," " Literary Style," 
" Men, Places, and Things," " Wit and Humor," and 
" Nugse Litterarise." 

"The Tempest" and "The Merchant of Venice," 
both edited by Dr. F. J. Furnivall, are recent additions 
to the " Old - Spelling Shakespeare," pubhshed by 
Messrs. Duffield & Co. From the same source we 
have "An Evening with Shakespeare," by Mr. T. 
Maskell Hardy, being a book of directions for a Shake- 
speare entertainment of readings, tableaux, and songs 
set to old-time music. 

Another book on Shakespeare which may be expected 
during the year is Mr. Theodore Watts-Dunton's essay, 
" Shakespeare's Adequacy to the Coming Century." 
Mr. Watts-Dimton seems to have quite a number of 
works approaching completion, among them "Rem- 
iniscences of D. G. Rossetti and William Morris at 
Kelmscott," a critical account of the romantic move- 
ment, to be entitled " The Renascence of Wonder," 
and a new novel. 

Among the foremost advocates of universal peace is 
the author of "Ground Arms ! " the Baroness von Suttner, 
who, at the age of sixty-five, has just written an account 
of her life, which has been published by the well-known 
" Deutsche Verlaganstalt " of Stuttgart and Leipzig. 
Messrs. Ginn & Company have secured the rights to 
publish the " Memorien von Bertha von Suttner " in all 
English-speaking countries, and will shortly bring out 
an English edition. 

Mr. John Foster's "A Shakespeare Word-Book," 
published by Messrs. E. P. Dutton & Co., is not a 
concordance, but a dictionary, with textual examples 
of Shakespeare's archaic forms and words of varied 
usage. Even with this limitation, the work extends to 
upwards of seven hundred double-columned pages. It is 



particularly valuable for reference in the case of words 
which are in common use to-day, but which had in the 
sixteenth century a signification materially different 
from that which we now give them. Such words are 
the real pitfalls of Shakespeare, rather than those 
which we at once see to be old and strange. 

" Recollections of Seventy Years," by Mr. F. B. 
Sanborn of Concord, is announced for publication this 
month. As editor of the Springfield " Republican," 
the Boston " Commonwealth," and the " Journal of 
Social Science," as the last of the founders of the 
famous Concord School of Philosophy, and as the close 
friend of such men as Emerson, Thoreau, Alcott, and 
John Brown, Mr. Sanborn occupies a xmique position. 
The work is divided into two volumes, one devoted to 
his political and the other to his literary life. 

A treatise on " Ethics," the work of Professors John 
Dewey and James H. Tufts, has been added to the 
" American Science Series " of Messrs. Henry Holt & Co. 
Its fundamental aim is " to awaken a vital conviction of 
the genuine reality of moral problems and the value of 
reflective thought in dealing with them." Approaching 
their subject by the historical pathway, the authors pro- 
ceed to analyze the leading conceptions of ethical theory, 
and then to apply them to a variety of pohtical and econo- 
mic problems at present largely under discussion. 

The Bibliophile Society, organized in Boston nine 
years ago for the purpose, among other ends, of pub- 
lishing artistic books and noteworthy manuscripts, will 
soon issue Thoreau's " Walden " as Thoreau wrote 
it, unabridged and unchanged. The " Walden " now 
known to the reading public lacks, according to Mr. 
Henry H. Harper, the Society's president, some twelve 
thousand words that were cut out by Thoreau's publish- 
ers from the author's manuscript, which, after devious 
wanderings, has fortimately come into the Society's 
possession. 

Two new books by Mr. Arthur Symons are a welcome 
feature of Messrs. E. P. Dutton & Co.'s Spring announce- 
ment list. The first of these, " The Romantic Movement 
in English Poetry," is an even more ambitious piece of 
work than its title suggests, for instead of an essay or a 
narrative, Mr. Symons gives separate and distinct appre- 
ciations of the personality and poetry of no less than 
eighty-six romantic writers born in the last eighty years 
of the eighteenth century. The other volume is a new 
edition, practically re-written, of the well-known "Plays, 
Acting, and Music." 

Russell Sturgis, well-known as an architect, art critic, 
and writer on architectural subjects, died at his home in 
New York City, on February 11. Mr. Sturgis was bom 
in 1836. Of chief interest among his published writings 
are the following: "European Architecture," "How to 
Judge Architecture," " The Appreciation of Sculpture," 
" The Appreciation of Pictures," and " The Interdepend- 
ence of the Arts of Design." At the time of his death 
one volume of his principal work, a " History of Archi- 
tecture," had been issued, another was in the proofs, and 
the third in manuscript. 

The copyright office of the Library of Congress 
reports for the last calendar year 118,386 entries, of 
which 30,954 were books, 23,022 periodicals (separate 
numbers), and the remainder musical and dramatic 
compositions, maps, engravings, chromes, photographs, 
prints of various kinds, and objects of art. The largest 
number of entries in one day was 3,532, and the smallest 
177. The total copyright fees amounted to $82,045.25, 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



147 



while the salaries paid were $76,475.77, and the dis- 
bursements for stationery and supplies, $1,142.30. 
Figures given for the last eleven years show the office 
to be handsomely self-supporting. 

The American Unitarian Association is engaged in the 
publication of a " Centenary Edition " of the writings 
of Theodore Parker. Three of the volumes are now at 
hand: " Sermons of Religion," edited by Mr. Samuel A. 
Eliot; " The Transient and Permanent in Christianity," 
edited by Mr. George Willis Cooke ; and " Historic 
Americans," a group of six lectures devoted to Franklin, 
Washington, John Adams, Jefferson, John Quincy 
Adams, and Daniel Webster. Good reading these 
books are, and we are glad that their burning message 
is thus presented to a new generation. 

The Spring announcement list of the Macmillan Co., 
just issued, is an imposing and interesting list of books 
containing no less than 100 titles. Of this number, 
34 are classified as Educational, and 7 as Scientific or 
Medical, the remainder of the list being distributed as 
follows: Fiction, 7 titles; General Literature, Poetry, 
and Drama, 6; Art, Archaeology, and Music, 5; Books 
of Travel and Description, 3 ; History, 6 ; Biography, 7 ; 
Politics, Economics, and Sociology, 9; Religion and 
Philosophy, 16. A list covering so wide a range of 
topics would in itself constitute the nucleus of a good 
general library. 

The committee to which was assigned the decision 
upon the merits of the papers contesting for prizes 
offered by Messrs. Hart, Schaffner & Marx of Chicago, 
for 1908, has unanimously agreed upon the following 
award: The first prize, of $1000, to Professor Oscar 
D. Skelton for a paper entitled "The Case against 
Socialism " ; the second prize, of $500, to Mrs. Emily 
Fogg Meade for a paper entitled " The Agricultural 
Resources of the United States." Among the contribu- 
tions restricted to college undergraduates, the first 
prize of $300 was won by Mr. A. E. Pinanski, Harvard 
1908, for a paper entitled " The Street Railway of 
Metropolitan Boston," and the second prize of $150 by 
William Shea, Cornell 1909, for "The Case against 
Socialism." It is expected that two, and possibly more, 
of these essays will be published this year by Houghton 
Mifflin Co. 



TOPICS IN liEADING PERIODICALS. 

March, 1909. 

Africa, Into, with Roosevelt. E. B. Clark. Review of Reviews. 
Africa in Transformation. C. C. Adams. Review of Reviews. 
Africa that Roosevelt Will See. C. B. Taylor. Everybody's. 
Africa: Where Roosevelt will Go. T. R. MacMechan. McClure. 
Africa's Native Problem. Olive Schreiner. Review of Reviews. 
Alcohol, Evidence against. M. A. Rosanoft. McClure. 
American Concert of Powers, An. T. S. Woolsey. Scribner. 
American Fleet and Australia. G. H. Reid. North American . 
Anti-Japanese Legislation. S. MacClintock. World To-day. 
Antony and Cleopatra, Romance of. L. Orr. Munsey. 
Art and American Society. Mabelle G. Corey. Cosmopolitan. 
Art in E very-day Life. R. C. Coxe. World's Work. 
Austria-Hungary Situation. 8. Tonjoroff. World To-day. 
Baedeker, The New — VII., Trenton Falls, N. Y. Bookman. 
Bank Issues vs. Government. J. L. Laughlin. Scribner. 
Barnard, GeorgeG., Sculpture of. F. W. Coburn. World To-day. 
Barry, Major-General Thos. H. B. Wildman. World To-day. 
Battleship, Launching a. R. G. Skerrett. World To-day. 
Book-Trade, The Disorganized. H. Miinsterberg. Atlantic. 
Bubonic Rats in Seattle. L. P. Zimmerman. World To-day. 
Buildings, Foundations of High. F. W. Skinner. Century. 
Burns, Poet of Democracy. Hamilton W.Mabie. No. American. 
Caine, Hall, Autobiography of — VII. Appleton. 
Cavour and Bismarck. Wm. R. Thayer. Atlantic. 
Chelsea, Old, and Its Famous People. W. J. Price. Munsey. 



Child, Professor, A Day with. Francis Gummere. Atlantic. 
Christianity and Temperance. C. F. Aked. Appleton. 
Church, The, and the Republic. Cardinal Gibbons. No.Amer. 
Cleveland's Second Campaign. G. F. Parker. McClure. 
Coal as a Conxmercial Factor. C. Phelps. Metropolitan. 
Consular Agents, Training. E. J. Brundage. World To-day. 
Coquelin, The Personal. Stuart Henry. Bookman. 
Cotton Trade. Our. Daniel J. Sully. Cosmopolitan. 
Country Life, Possibilities of. World's Work. 
Craftsmen, Mediaeval. E. A. Batchelder. Craftsman. 
Cuba, Home Rule in. C. N. de Durland. World To-day. 
Democracy, The New American. Wm. Allen White. American. 
Democratic Party's Future. W.J.Bryan. Munsey. 
Desert, Reclaiming the — III. Forbes Lindsay. Craftsman. 
Dramatic Technique, Evolution of. A. Henderson. No. Amer. 
Dyeing Imitation Silk. C. E. Pellew. Craftsman. 
Educational Revolution, An. H. E. Gorst. North A merican. 
Embassies, Government Ownership of . Horace Porter. Century. 
English Sport from an American Viewpoint. Scribner. 
Faria, Abb6, The Real. Francis Miltoun. Bookman. 
Ferdinand, Czar of Bulgaria. Theodore Schwarz. Munsey. 
Fishing off California. C. F. Holder. World To-day. 
Fleet, A Night with Our. Richard Barry. Cosmopolitan. 
Fruit-Handling: New Methods. F.J.Dyer. Review of Reviews. 
Fur Country, In the. Agnes C. Laut. World's Work. 
Fur Traders as Empire-Builders — I. C. M. Harvey. Atlantic. 
German Art. Modern. M. I. MacDonald. Craftsman. 
Germany in Transition. North American. 
Hartzell, Bishop, in Africa. F. C. Inglehart. Review of Reviews. 
Hayes in the White House. M. S. Gerry. Century. 
Health, Value of. F. M. Bjorkman. World's Work. 
Herrick's Home in Devon. Edna B. Holman. Scribner. 
Immigrants, Opportunities for. T. Bartlett. World's Work. 
Immortals, The Forty. Brander Matthews. Munsey. 
Indian Tribes in the Desert. E. S. Curtis. Scribner. 
Infectious Diseases, Preventing. C. Torrey. Harper. 
Innocence, The Heavy Cost of. World's Work. 
Insurance, State Safeguards of. World's Work. 
Ireland, The New — X. Sydney Brooks. North A merican. 
Knox, Philander C. W. S. Bridgman. Munsey. 
Lafayette Statue. Bartlett's. C. N. Plagg. Scribner. 
Leipsic : Home of Faust. R. H. SchaufiBer. Century. 
Life Insurance, Romance of — X. W. J. Graham. World To-day. 
Lincoln, Abraham. Henry Watterson. Cosmopolitan. 
Lincoln, My Reminiscences of. A. J. Conant. McClure. 
Lion Country, Back to the. J. H. Patterson. World's Work. 
Lowell, Professor A. Lawrence. Frederic A. Ogg. Munsey. 
Lowell, Professor A. Lawrence. F. Rice. World To-day. 
McKinley and Cuba. Henry S. Pritchetti North American. 
McKinley at Antietam. John W. Russell. Munsey. 
Man-hunting in Kentucky. R. W. Child. Everybody's. 
Marriages, International. James L. Ford. Appleton. 
Militarism, The Delusion of. C.E.Jefferson. Atlantic. 
Mining, Eccentric. D. Pearson. World, To-day. 
Motor-boat, Uses of the. E. B. Moss. Metropolitan. 
Motor Car, The, and Its Owner. E. R. Estep. Rev. of Reviews. 
Muir, John, Three Days with. F. Strother. World's Work. 
Music, Nationalism in. Reginald De Koven. North American. 
Music, The American Idea in. David Bispham. Craftsman. 
Negro Problem, Heart of the. Quincy Ewingr. Atlantic. 
New York City's Big Debt. Henry Bru6re. Century. 
Ocean Travel, Safe. T. S. Dayton. Munsey, 
Ocean Travel, Safety of. E. A. Stevens. Review of Revietvs. 
Old Age. M. C. Carrington. Appleton. 
Orchestras, Great American. C. E. Russell. Cosmopolitan. 
Orinoco Delta, In the. C. W. and M. B. Beebe. Harper. 
Pekin : The Forbidden City. I. T. Headland. Metropolitan. 
Pennies, Counting the. Ida M. Tarbell. American. 
Physical Life, Our. Wm. H. Thomson. Everybody's. 
Physical Science of To-day. John Trowbridge. Atlantic. 
Ponies, The Kirghiz. Charles L. Bull. Metropolitan. 
Presidents, Changing. John T. McCutcheon. Appleton. 
Presidents, Our, Out-of-Doors. Calvin D. Wilson. Century. 
Press, The, and Professors. G. Stanley Hall. Appleton. 
Profit and Usury. Alexander G. Bell. World's Work. 
Prohibition and Public Morals. Henry Colman. No. American. 
Prosperity-Sharing. Wm. H. Tolman. Century. 
Railroads and Education. James O. Fagan. Atlantic. 
Religio-Medical Movements, The. S. McComb. No. American. 
Remington, Frederic, Art of. G. Edgerton. Craftsman. 
Renaissance Pageant, A., in Chicago. World's Work. 
Rockefeller, John D., Reminiscences of — VI. World's Work. 
Roosevelt as President. M.G. Seckendorft. Munsey. 
Roosevelt, Epoch of. C. Welliver. Review of Reviews. 
Roosevelt, President. Bookman. 

Roosevelt Regime. The. F. W. Shepardson. World To-day. 
Roosevelt's Achievements as President. World's Work. 



148 



TPIE DIAL 



[March 1, 



Schools, Public, Plain Facts about. S. P. Orth. Atlantic. 

Scientific Congress, The First Pan-American. World To-day. 

Shakespeare's " Henry VIII." J. Churton Collins. Harper. 

"Society." Rollin Lynde Hartt. Atlantic. 

Stage, Our National. James L. Ford. McClure. 

Stage, The Grip of the. Clara Morris. Munsey. 

Steel, Making. William G. Beymer. Harper. 

Street Railways, Corruption in. F. W. Whitridge. Century. 

Swifts of Chicago, The. Emerson Hough. Cosmopolitan. 

Taft, Turning Points in Career of. W. H. Taft. Century. 

Taft. William H. George Fitch. American. 

Taft, William H. James P. Brown. Everybody's. 

Taft, Wm. H., as Administrator. J. A. LeRoy. Century. 

Taft. William H., Personality of. Century. 

Tariff Revision, Needed. T.H.Carter. North American. 

Telephone, The, and Crime. H. Dickson. Appleton. 

Theatres for Children. Laura Smith. World's Work. 

Tramps, Colonizing. G. Myers. Review of Reviews. 

Trolley Rehabilitation. Robert Sloss. Appleton. 

Union, The New, of States. W. J. McGee. Review of Reviews. 

Victoria. Queen, Impressions of. Sallie C. Stevenson. Century. 

Wall Street " Killings." John Parr. Everybody's. 

Welles, Gideon, The Diary of — II. Atlantic. 

Woman's Position — III. Duchess of Marlborough. No. Amer. 

Women, Work for — V. Wm. Hard. Everybody's. 

Wood Carving, Value of. K. von Rydingsvard. Craftsman. 

Wrangell, Ascending Mount. Robert Dunn. Harper. 



List of New Books. 



[The following list, containing 76 titles, includes books 
received by The Dial since its last issue.] 

BIOGRAPHY. 

The Ancestry of Abraham Liincoln. By J. Henry Lea 
and J. R. Hutchinson. lUus. in photogravure, 4to, pp. 218. 
Houghton MiiHin Co. tlO. net. 

The Xiife of a Fossil Hunter. By Charles H. Sternberg; 
with Introduction by Henry Fairfield Osborn. lUus., 12mo, 
pp. 286. " American Nature Series." Henry Holt & Co. 
tl.60 net. 

My Inner Liif e : Being a Chapter in Personal Evolution and 
Autobiography. By John Beattie Crozier. New edition ; in 
2 vols., 8vo. Longmans, Green, & Co. 12.50 net. 

The Apprenticeship of Washington, and Other Sketches 
of Significant Colonial Personages. By George Hodges, 
D.D., D.C.L. 12mo, pp. 232. Moffat, Yard & Co. $1.25 net. 

The Iiawrences of the Punjab. By Frederick P. Gibbon. 
With portraits in photogravure, etc., 12mo, pp. 350. E. P. 
Dutton & Co. $1 .50 net. 

HISTORY. 

The Assassination of Abraham Lincoln, and Its Expiation. 

By David Miller Dewitt. 12mo, pp. 302. Macmillan Co. 

$2.25 net. 
Napoleon and America : An Outline of the Relations of the 

United States to the Career and Downfall of Napoleon 

Bonaparte. By Edward L. Andrews. With frontispiece, 

8vo, pp. 89. Mitchell Kennerley. $2. net. 
The Roman Forum: Its History and Its Monuments. By 

Ch. Hvilsen ; trans, by Jesse Benedict Carter. Second edition, 

revised and enlarged ; illus., 12mo, pp. 271. G. E. Stechert 

& Co. $1.75 net. 
A History of the United States and Its People from Their 

Earliest Records to the Present Time. By Elroy McKendree 

Avery. Vol. V., illus. in color, 8vo, pp. 431. Cleveland: 

Burrows Brothers Co. 
Storia Do Mogor ; or, Mogul India, 1653-1708. By Niccolas 

Manucci; trans, by William Irvine. Vol. IV., illus., 8vo, 

pp.605. " Indian Text Series." E. P. Dutton & Co. $3.75net. 

GENERAL LITERATURE. 

Peace and Happiness. By Lord Avebury. 12mo, pp. 386. 
Macmillan Co. $1.50 net. 

Johannes Brahms : The Herzogenberg Correspondence. 
Edited by Max Kalbeck ; trans, by Hannah Bryant. With 
portrait, 8vo, pp. 425. E. P. Dutton & Co. $3. net. 

Readings on the Paradlso of Dante, Chiefly Based on the 
Commentary of Benevenuto Da Imola. By William Warren 
Vernon; with Introduction by the Bishop of Ripon. Second 
edition ; in 2 vols, 12mo. Macmillan Co. $4. net. 



Little People. By Richard Whiteing. With portrait, 12mo, 

pp. 295. Cassell & Co. $1.50 net. 

New Mediaeval Library. New vols.: Early English Ro- 
mances of Love, Early English Romances of Friendship; 
done into modem English, with Introduction and notes, by 
Edith Rickert. Each illus. in photogravure, 16mo. Duffleld 
& Co. Per vol., $2. net. 

An Indian Study of Love and Death. By the Sister Nivedita 
of Ramakrishna-Vive-Rananda. 16mo, pp. 76. Longmans, 
Green & Co. 75 cts. net. 

NEW EDITIONS OF STANDARD LITERATURE. 

The Novels of Jane Austen. Edited by R. Brimley Johnson ; 
illus. in color by A. Wallis Mills. New vols, completing the 
set: Emma, in 2 vols.; Mansfield Park, in 2 vols.; Persua- 
sion, Northanger Abbey. Each 12mo. Duffleld & Co. Per 
vol., $1.25 net. 

Works of Beaumont and Fletcher. Vol. VI., The Queen of 
Corinth, Bonduca, The Knight of the Burning Pestle, Loves 
Pilgrimmage, The Double Marriage. Edited by A. R. Waller, 
M.A. 12mo, pp. 420. " Cambridge English Classics." G. P. 
Putnam's Sons. $1.50 net. 

The Republic of Plato. Trans., with Introduction, by A. D. 
Lindsay, M.A. 12mo, pp. 370. E. P. Dutton & Co. $1.25 net. 

The Complete Works of George Gascoigne. Vol. I., The 
Posies. Edited by John W. Cunliffe, M.A., D.Lit. 12mo, 
pp.504. " Cambridge English Classics." G.P.Putnam's 
Sons. $1.50 net. 

The Old-Spelling Shakespeare. New vols. : The Merchant 
of Venice, The Tempest; edited by F. J. Fumivall, Ph.D., 
with Introduction and notes by F. W. Clarke, M.A. Each, 
12mo. Duffleld & Co. Per vol., $1. net. 

DRAMA AND VERSE. 
Salvage. By Owen Seaman. 16mo, pp. 149. Henry Holt & Co. 

$1.25 net. 

Ode on the Centenary of Abraham Lincoln. By Percy 
Mackaye. 12mo, pp. 61. Macmillan Co. 75 cts. net. 

Sisyphus: An Operatic Fable. ByR. C.Trevelyan. 8vo, pp.75. 
Longmans, Green, & Co. $1.50 net. 

Champlain : A Drama in Three Acts, with Introduction enti- 
tled Twenty Years and After. By J. M. Harper. With frontis- 
piece. 12mo, pp. 296. John Lane Co. $1.50. 

The Blue and the Gray, and Other Verses. By Francis 
M. Finch ; with Introduction by Andrew D. White. With 
portrait, 12mo, pp. 144. Henry Holt & Co. $1.30 net. 

Abraham Lincoln: A Poem. By Lyman Whitney Allen. 
Centennial (fourth) edition ; 12mo, pp. 142. G. P. Putnam's 
Sons. $1.25 net. 

A Motley Jest : Shakespearean Diversons. 12mo, pp. 64. 
Sherman, French & (k>. $1. net. 

A Wine of Wizardry, and Other Poems. By George Stirling. 
12mo, pp. 137. San Francisco: A. M. Robertson. $1.25 net. 

FICTION. 
Araminta. By J. C. Snaith. 12mo, pp. 423. Moffat, Yard & 

Co. $1.50. 
The Three Brothers. By Eden Phillpotts. 12mo, pp. 480. 

Macmillan Co. $1.50. 
Christopher Hibbault, Roadmaker. By Marguerite Bryant. 

12mo, pp. 382. Duffleld & Co. $1.50. 
A Prince of Dreamers. By Flora Annie Steel. 12mo, pp. 348. 

Doubleday, Page & Co. $1.25 net. 
The Web of the Golden Spider. By Frederick Orin Bartlett. 

Illus. in color, etc., 12mo, pp. 354. Small, Maynard & Co. 

$1.50. 
Rachel Lorian. By Mrs. Henry Dudeney. 12mo, pp. 346. 

Duffleld* Co. $1.50. 
The Pilgrims' March. By H. H. Bashford. 12mo, pp. 320. 

Henry Holt & Co. $1.50. 
Aline of the Grand Woods : A Story of Louisiana. By Nevil 

G. Henshaw. 12mo, pp. 491. Outing Publishing Co. $1.50. 
The Bomb. By Frank Harris. 12mo, pp. 329. Mitchell 

Kennerley. $1.50. 
Bill Truetell : A Story of Theatrical Life. By George H. 

Brennan ; illus. in color, etc., by James Montgomery Flagg. 

12mo, pp. 282. A. C. McClurg & Co. $1.50. 
The Climbing Courvatels. By Edward W. Townsend. Illus. 

in color, 12mo, pp. 290. Frederick A. Stokes Co. $1.50. 
Whither Thou Goest : A Romance of the Clyde. By J. J. 

Bell. 12mo. pp. 364. Fleming H. Revell Co. $1.20 net. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



149 



The Iiost Cabin Mine. By Frederick Niven. 12mo, pp. 312. 

John Lane Co. tl.50. 
Old Jim Case of South Hollow. By Edward I. Rice. With 

frontispiece, 12mo, pp. 253. Doubleday, Page & C!o. $1. net. 
The Trailers. By Ruth Little Mason. l2mo, pp.365. Fleming 

H. Revell Co. $1.20 net. 
In the Valley of the Shadows. By Thomas Lee Woolwine. 

Illus. in color, 12mo, pp. 115. Doubleday, Page & Co. $1. 
Unmasked at Last. By Headon Hill. With frontispiece, 

12mo. pp. 314 R. F. Fenno & Co. $1. net. 

TRAVEIi AND DESCRIPTION. 

Tunis, Kairouan and Carthagre. Described and painted by 
Graham Petrie, R.I. 8vo, pp. 241. Doubleday, Page & Co. 
$4.80 net. 

From Bnwenzori to the Conero : A Naturalist's Journey 
Across Africa. By A. F. R. Wollaston. Illus., 8vo, pp. 313. 
E. P. Dutton & Co. $5. net. 

The South African Nations : Their Progress and Present 
Condition. Edited by the South African Native Races Com- 
mittee. 8vo, pp. 248. E. P. Dutton & Co. $2. net. 

BEIiiaiON. 

The Kelig^ion of the Common Man. By Sir Henry Wrixon. 

12mo, pp. 188. Macmillan Co. $1. net. 
Apt and Meet : Counsels to Candidates for Holy Orders, at 

the Church Divinity School of the Pacific. By William F. 

Nichols, D.D. 12mo, pp. 161. New York : Thomas Whittaker, 

Inc. $1. net. 
The Book of Filial Duty. Trans, from the Chinese of the 

Hsiao Ching by Ivan Ch6n, together with the Twenty-four 

Examples from the Chinese. 16mo, pp. 60. " Wisdom of the 

East Series." E. P. Dutton & Co. 40 cts. net. 

PTTBIilC AFFAIRS. 

Collectivism : A Study of Some of the Leading Social Questions 
of the Day. By Paul Leroy Beaulieu ; trans, and abridged 
by Sir Arthur Clay. 8vo, pp. 343. E. P. Dutton & Co. $3. net. 

Outline of Practical Sociology with Special Reference to 
American Conditions. By Carroll D.Wright, LL.D. Seventh 
edition, revised ; 12mo, pp. 431. " American Citizen Series." 
Longmans, Green, & Co. |2. net. 

The Passing of the Tariff. By Raymond L. Bridgman. 12mo, 
pp. 274. Sherman, French & Co. $1.20 net. 

Towards Social Reform. By Canon and Mrs. S. A. Barnett. 
12mo, pp. 352. Macmillan Co. $1.50 net. 

BOOKS OF REFERENCE, 

A Shakespeare Word-Book : Being a Glossary of Archaic 
Forms and Varied Usages of Words Employed by Shake- 
speare. By John Foster, M.A. 8vo, pp. 735. E. P. Dutton 
& Co. $3. net. 

Catalogue of Books in the Children's Department of the 
Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh. 8vo, pp. 601. Pitts- 
burgh: Carnegie Library. 75cts.net. 

BOOKS FOR THE YOUNG. 

The Magic Casement : An Anthology of Fairy Poetry. Edited, 
with Introduction, by Alfred Noyes. With frontispiece, 
12mo, pp. 384. E. P. Dutton & Co. $2. net. 

The Marvellous Adventures of Pinocchio. By Carlo Loren- 
zini ; edited by Mary E. Burt from the translation of Augustus 
G. Caprani. Illus. in color, 12mo, pp. 241. "Every Child 
Should Know Series." Doubleday, Page & Co. 90 cts. net. 

An Evening with Shakespeare : An Entertainment of Read- 
ings, Tableaux, and Songs Set to the Old Tunes. Arranged 
by T. Maskell Hardy. Illus., 12mo, pp. 119. " Lamb Shake- 
speare for the Young." Duffield & Co. 80 cts. net. 

Janet and Her Dear Phebe. By aarissa Dixon. 12mo, pp.218. 
Frederick A. Stokes Co. $1. 

The Children's Dally Service : A Year Book of Text, Verse, 
and Prayer. By Blandina Stanton Babcock. 18mo, pp. 366. 
New York : Thomas Whittaker, Inc. 50 cts. net. 

EDUCATION. 

Economics : Briefer Course. By Henry Rogers Seager. 12mo, 

pp. 476. Henry Holt & Co. 
Enlarged Practice-Book in English Composition. By Alfred 

M. Hitchcock. 12mo, pp. 374. Henry Holt & Co. $1. net. 



Chatterton. By Alfred De Vigny; edited by E. Lauvrifere. 
With portrait, 12mo, pp. 134. "Oxford Higher French 
Series." Oxford University Press. 

High School Course in Latin Composition. By Charles 
McCoy Baker and Alexander James Inglis. 12mo, pp. 464. 
Macmillan Co. $1. net. 

A Secondary Arithmetic, Commercial and Industrial, for 
High, Industrial, Commercial, Normal Schools and Aca- 
demies. By John C. Stone and James F. Millis. 12mo, 
pp. 221. Benjamin H. Sanborn & Co. 75 cts. net. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

A New History of Painting in Italy. By J. A. Crowe and 
G. B. Cavalcaselle ; edited by Edward Hutton. Vol. I., 
Early Christian Art: Giotto and His Followers. Illus. in 
photogravure, etc., 8vo, pp. 456. E. P. Dutton & Co. $5. net. 

Columbia University Lectures on Science, Philosophy, and 
Art, 1907-1908. 8vo. Columbia University Press. $5. net. 

General Lectures on Electrical Engineering. By Charles 
Proteus Stelnmetz, A.M., Ph.D. ; edited by Joseph LeRoy 
Hayden. With portrait, 8vo, pp. 284. Schenectady, N. Y. : 
Robson & Adee. $2. net. 

Athletic Games in the Education of Women. By Gertrude 
Dudley and Frances A. Kellor. 12mo, pp. 268. Henry Holt & 
Co. $1.25 net. 

Self Help for Nervous Women. By John R. Mitchell, M.D. 
12mo, pp. 202. J. B. Lippincott'Co. $1. net. 

Lincoln's Birthday : A Comprehensive View of Lincoln as 
Given in the Most Noteworthy Essays, Orations, and Poems, 
in Fiction, and in Lincoln's Own Writings. Edited by 
Robert Haven Schauffler. 12mo, pp. 386. Moffat, Yard & 
Co. $1. net. 



THE 

Mosher 
Books 

The only collec- 
tion of genu- 
ine hand-made 
paper books at 
popular prices 
in tAmerica. 



THE 

MOSHER BOOKS 

CATALOGUE 



My New Catalogue covering 
every title I have published, 
1891-1908 inclusive, is now 
ready, and will be mailed free 
on request. It is without ques- 
tion a bibelot in itself and as 
choice a production as I can 
hope to offer. 

Thomas B.MosHER 

PORTLAND, MAINE 



D A Dp and unusual BOOKS on South America, 
*^''^*^*-' Texas, Mexico, West Indies, etc. 

LATIN-AMERICA BOOK COMPANY, 
Catalogue on application. 203 Front St., New York City. 



FINE BOOKS RECENTLY IMPORTED 

Described in our Monthly Catalogue — March Issue — 
FREE on application. JOSEPH McDONOUGH CO., 

98 State Street, ALBANY, N. Y. (Established 1870.) 



F. M. HOLLY 

Authors' and Publishers' Representative 

Circulars sent upon request. 156 Fifth Avenue, New York. 



FOR ANY BOOK ON EARTH write to H. H. TIMBV, 

Book Hunter. Catalogues free. 1st Nat. Bank BIdg., Conneaut, O. 



MANUSCRIPTS 
TYPEWRITTEN 



EXPERT SERVICE 

MODERATE PEES 
L. E. Swartz, 526 Newport, Chicago 



150 



THE DIAL 



[March 1, 



Some Book Bargains 



SEICBOCOSM OF LONDON ; or. London in Hiniature. 
By Henry Ackermann. With 104 beautiful full-page illustra- 
tions in colours, the Architecture by A. C. Pugin, and the 
Manners and Customs by Thomas Rowlandson and William 
Henry Pine. In three volumes, quarto. London : Methuen 
& Co. Reduced from $22. to $1 2.50. 
The Original Edition of this book is now rare and costly, and 

is one of the finest and most popular of old colored books, and 

an invaluable description of London a century ago. 

THE NATIONAL SFOBTS OF QREAT BBITAIN. 
By Henry Aiken. With 50 full-page illustrations, beautifully 
coloured after Nature, 18 x 13 inches. Each illustration is 
accompanied by full and descriptive letterpress in English 
and French. A handsome volume, large folio, buckram back, 
cloth sides. A choice facsimile of the very rare and costly 
original edition of 1821. London: Methuen & Co. Reduced 
from $37. to $15.00. 

SOCIAL CARICATTJBE IN THE EIGHTEENTH 
CENTUB.Y. By " George Fasten " (Miss E. M. Symonds), 
Author of " Little Memoirs of the 18th Century, &c. A 
Comprehensive Survey of the Life and Pastimes of the English 
People during the Eighteenth Century, as portrayed in the 
Caricatures by Hogarth, Rowlandson, Gillray, and others. 
Superbly illustrated by a colored frontispiece and over 200 
plates, beautifully reproduced from the original line en- 
gravings, etchings, mezzotints, stipple, &c., with letterpress 
explaining all the points of the drawings. Large quarto, 
boards, canvas back, gilt top. London: Methuen & Co. 
Reduced from $18.50 to $7.60. 



The Fourth Folio of Shakespeare. Faithfully 

Reproduced in Collotype Facsimile from the 

Edition of 1685, in a limited issue. 

KB. WILLIAM SHAKESFEABE'S COMEDIES, HIS- 
TORIES AND TBAGEDIES. Fublished according 
to the true Original Copies. The Fourth Edition, with 
all the introductory matter, epitaphs, verses, etc., and a fine 
impression of the portrait by Droeshout. Folio, boards, linen 
back. [London : Printed for H. Herringham, E. Brewster, and 
R. Bentley, at the Anchor in the New Exchange, etc., 1685.] 
London: Methuen & Co. Reduced from $30. to $1 5.00. 



THE GODS OF THE EGYPTIANS; or, Studies in 
Eg-yptlan Mythology. By E. A. Wallis Budge, Litt.D. 
(Keeper of the Egyptian and Assyrian Antiquities in the 
British Museum). A complete history of the worship of 
spirits, demons, and gods in Egypt, from the earliest period to 
the introduction of Christianity. Magrniflcently illustrated 
by 98 colored plates and 131 illustrations in the text. Two 
volumes, large octavo. London: Methuen & Co. Reduced 
from $22. to $10.00. 

BECUYELL OF THE HISTOBYES OF TBOYE. By 

Raoul Lefevre, translated and printed by William Caxton 
(cir. A.D. 1474), and now edited by H. Oskar Sommer, Ph.D. 
A faithful reproduction of the original words, from a unique 
perfect copy of the original, with an historical and critical 
introduction, and including a complete Glossary and Index. 
Two volumes, small quarto. London : David Nutt. Reduced 
from $12.50 to $6.50. 

Two hundred and fifty copies of this Edition were privately 
printed for Subscribers, of which only a few remain for sale. 

DOME (THE): A duarterly. Containing Examples of all 
the Arts: Architecture, Literature, Drawings, Paintings. 
Engravings, and Music. With contributions by Laurence 
Housman, W. B. Yeats, Arthur Symons, Fiona Macleod, 
Stephen Phillips, Edward Elgar, Liza Lehmann, and others, 
with facsimiles of early woodcuts, and illustrations by 
modem artists, with a number of songs. Complete as pub- 
lished, 1st Series, 5 parts, and 2d Series, 7 vols. Twelve 
volumes, small quarto. London: At the Sign of the Unicom. 
Reduced from $20. to $7.50. 



Sent prepaid on receipt of price. . 

BROWNE'S BOOKSTORE 

FINE ARTS BUILDING, CHICAGO 



THE NEW YORK BUREAU OF REVISION 

Established in 1880. LETTERS OF CRITICISM. EXPERT 
REVISION OF MSS. Advice as to publication. Address 
DR. TITUS M. COAN, 70 FIFTH AVE., NEW YORK CITY 

ROOICS ALL OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS SUPPLIED, 

»-*yjy^*^^» no matter on what subject. Write ub. We can get 
you any book ever published. Please state wants. Catalogue faee. 
BAKER'S OREAT BOOK SHOP, 14-16 Bright St., Bibminoham, Eno. 



DE MORGA'S "PHILIPPINE ISLANDS 

"The most valuable of the early sources 
on Philippine hiatory." — Amer. Hist. Rev. 



M 



DESCRIPTIVE CIRCULAR ON APPLICATION. 



THE ARTHUR H. CLARK CO., CLEVELAND, OHIO 

PA^U DQI7EQ For long stories .... $9,000.00 

UHOn rnilLO For short stories . . . . 4,500.00 

TO AIITUnDQ Anecdotes, poems, etc. . 1,500.00 

I U AU I n U n Competition open to all for 

===^== a total of $15,000.00 

Merit alone counts. Send 5 cents for February number, giving 
all details. WOMAN'S HOME JOURNAL, Springfield, Mass. 

"HUMPHRY CLINKER" FREE! We will send you, cornpli- 
meutary, Smollett's rare uovel, cloth bound, all charges paid. Broadly 
humorous; Thackeray called it "most laughable story ever written." 
Ask price at bookstore, then send only §1. for a year's subscription to 
the Pathfinder — the bright weekly national review, and get book free. 
PATHFINDER PUBLISHING CO., Washington, D. C. 

M AGGS BROS. London, W. C, England 

Dealers in Rare Books, Prints, and Autographs 

Voyages and Travels. Early Printed Books. Illuminated 
MSS. First Editions. Sporting and Coloured Plate Books. 
General Literature. 

Also Fine Portraits and Fancy Subjects (chiefly Eighteenth 
Century). Early Engravings by the Old Masters. Modem 
Etchings by Whistler and others. 

Autograph Letters and MSS. of great Historic and Literary 

interest. 

Classified Catalogues post free on application. 

Customers^ '^desiderata" searched for and reported 

free of charge. 



A New Volume in The Art of Life Series. 
Edward Howaed Griggs, Editor. 

SELF-MEASUREMENT 

A Scale of Human Values with Directions for Personal Application 
By WILLIAM DEWITT HYDE, President of Bo wdoinCoUege. 

At all bookstores. 50ctsnet; postpaid, 55 cts. 
B. W. HUEBSCH PUBLISHER NEW YORY CITY 



lA/ll I lAU D ICUI^IUC nn PutUshers, Booksellers, 
VYILUAm Hi JCNMnO uUi stationers, and Printers 
851-853 SIXTH AVE., Cor. 48th St., NEW YORK 



FRENCH 

AMD OTBEtt 
rOBKION 

BOOKS 

Complete cata- 
logs on request. 



BEAD OUB 

ROMANS CHOIS1S. 26 Titles, Paper 
60 cts., cloth 85 cts. per volume. CONTES 
CHOI SIS. 24 Titles. Paper 25 cts., cloth 
40 cts. per volume. Masterpieces, pure, by well- 
known authors. Read extensively by classes; 
notes in English. List on application. 



Politics I Read 



[«: 



Mary Johnston's 



Lewis Rand 



Adventure 



The Great Novel 
of the Year 



I History 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



151 



Vol. 3. Renascence and Reformation. Ready To-day. 

The Cambridge History of English Literature 

Edited by A. W. WARD, Litt.D., Master of Peterhouse, and 
A. R. WALLER, M.A., Peterhouse 

To be in 14 Volumes, Royal 8vo, of about 600 pages each. Price per volume $2.50 net 

Subscriptions received for the complete work at $31.50 net, payable at the rate of $2.25 on the notification 

of the publication of each volume. 
Previously Issued: 

Vol. I. From the Beginnings to the Cycles of Romance 
Vol. II. The End of the Middle Ages 

SOME COMMENTS ON VOLUMES L AND II. 

Athenaeum : " The editors of this volume . . . have pro- Jewish Chronicle : " This great work is making steady 
duced a book which is indispensable to any serious student progress, and the second volume confirms the impression 
of English literature. The individual articles are in several made by the first. No such account of English literature 
instances contributions of great value to the discussion of has ever been attempted before. It is a unique history, and 
their subjects, and one of them is of first-rate importance in the execution is as exceptional as the plan. Both are con- 
English literary history." spicuously successful." 

Liverpool Courier : " Specialization has left the detail Month : " From every point of view, whether of interest, 
of this volume, almost without exception, quite irreproach- scholarship, or practical utility, we cannot hesitate for a 
able and masterly ; a fine editorial sagacity has robbed moment In pronouncing that ... it bids fair to prove the 
specialization of its selfishness and secured a cumulative best work of its kind that has ever been produced. . . . 
effect of remarkable assonance and dignity. Of the deep Writing from a Catholic standpoint, we cannot fail to com- 
need for such an enterprise as this there was never any ques- mend the generally temperate and even sympathetic tone 
tion; that it would certainly achieve a strong success the in which the religious questions of the Middle Ages are 
reception accorded the first volume made entirely clear." treated." 




SEND FOR FULL DESCRIPTIVE CIRCULAR. 




Putnam's 
Magazine 


Q. P. PUTNAM'S SONS 

NEW YORK AND LONDON 


The 

Knickerbocker 

Press 







The Study-Guide Series 

FOR USE IN HIGH SCHOOLS: The Study of Four IdylU 
— college entrance requirements. The study of Ivanhoe. Send for 
new descriptive circular and special price for class iise. 
FOR USE IN COLLEGE CLASSES AND STUDY 
CLUBS: Studies of the Historical Plays of Shakespeare; The 
Study of Historical Fiction; The Study of Idylls of the King 
(arranged for critical study ) . New descriptive circular. 

Single copies, each, 50 cents. Send for new price list. 
Address H. A. Davidson, The Study-Guide Series, Cambridge, Mass. 


OF INTEREST 
to LIBRARIANS 

T X /"E are now handling a larger per- 
^ ^ centage of orders from Public 
Libraries, School and College 
Libraries, than any other dealer in 
the entire country. This is because 
our book stock, covering all classes 
and grades of books, is more com- 
plete than that of any other book- 
seller in the United States, enabling 
us to make full and prompt ship- 
ments. Also, because we have a well 
equipped department looking after 
this special branch of the business. 




OUR ASSISTANCE 

IN THE PURCHASE OP BOOKS, ESFECIALY BAKE OR SCARCE ONES, 

IS ALWAYS AVAILABLE, AND HAS HELPED MANY CAREFUL BUYERS. 

WE SEND OUR CATALOGUE ON REQUEST. 

THE TORCH PRESS BOOK SHOP. CEDAR RAPIDS, IOWA 




OUR LIBRARY SERVICE 

\X7E have recently supplemented our service to Libraries, by 
» ' procuring Out-of-Print and Scarce Books, and by importing 
English books. 

Our EDUCATIONAL CATALOGUE contains a full Ust 
of Supplementary Reading, indicatmg the grade to which each 
title is adapted. 

Our CLEARANCE CATALOGUE contains overstock at 
special prices, and an alphabetical arrangement by authors of all 
cheap editions of Recent Popular Fiction and Standard Library 
12mos in one list. 

Our LI BRARY CATALOGU E of 3500 approved titles, fol- j 
lowing A. L. A. lines, is of great convenience to small libraries. 1 

Our MONTHLY BULLETIN notices promptly every new 
book of importance. 

These Catalogues are sent on request. Three notable features of \ 
our service are : promptness, thoroughness, and low prices. 

THE BAKER & TAYLOR CO. 

WHOLESALE DEALERS IN THE BOOKS OP ALL PUBLISHERS 

33 East Seventeenth Street, New York 


A. C. McCLURG & CO. 

LIBRARY DEPARTMENT CHICAGO 



152 THE DIAL [March 1, 1909. 



C Do you know THE BEACON BIOGRAPHIES? 

C If you do not, will you allow us to send you a little pamphlet designed to help you to a 
better acquaintance ? 

C The aim of THE BEACON BIOGRAPHIES is to furnish brief, readable, and authori- 
tative accounts of the lives of those Americans who have impressed their personalities most 
deeply on the history of their country or the character of their countrymen. 
C On account of the length of the more formal lives, often running into more than one bulky 
volume, many busy men and women have not the time, though they have the inclination, to 
acquaint themselves with American biography. 

C In the BEIACON SERIES everything that such readers would ordinarily care to know is 
presented by writers of special competence, possessing in full measure the best contemporary 
point of view ; and, though special care is taken to lay the accent on the personal side of the 
subject and the characteristics which made him and his work notable, each volume is very care- 
fully designed to take its proper place in what is intended to be, in the end, a comprehensive 
view of American history in the entertaining and vivid form of a just and lifelike portraiture 
of its chief characters. 

C Each volume is equipped with a portrait frontispiece reproduced in photogravure, a chrono- 
logical outline of the events of the life, and a bibliography for further reading. The volumes 
are printed in a special face of readable type and are of a size convenient for reading and for 
carrying in the pocket. 

C The price, which has formerly been 75 cts. net, per volume, is now reduced to 50 cts. net. 
Each volume is sold separately. C, The latest addition to the SERIES is 

ABRAHAM UNCOLN 

By BRAND WHITLOCK, Mayor of Toledo, 

Author of " The 13th District," " The Turn of the Balance," etc. 
IDA M. TARBELL, the great biographer of Lincoln, says: " Mr. Whitlock's book is far and away the best 
brief account of Lincoln that I have ever read. It is sufficiently comprehensive, and it is sympathetic and intelli- 
gent. He seems to me to have mastered his material very well and to have compressed an immense amount of 
the real feeling and flavor of Lincoln into comparatively few pages. I am constantly being asked for an inter- 
esting short life of Lincoln, and this is the first time that I have come across one that I take entire satisfaction in 
recommending." 

THE VOLUMES NOW PUBLISHED IN THE SERIES ARE : 
LOUIS AGASSIZ, by Alice Bachb Gould. FATHER HECKER. by Henry D. Sedgwick, Jr. 

JOHN JAMES AUDUBON, by John Burroughs. SAM HOUSTON, by Sarah Barnwell Elliott. 

EDWIN BOOTH, by Charles Townsend Copeland. *' STONEWALL " JACKSON, by Carl Hovey. 

PHILLIPS BROOKS, by M. A. DeWolfe Howe. THOMAS JEFFERSON, by Thomas E. Watson. 

JOHN BROWN, by Joseph Edgar Chamberlin. ROBERT E. LEE, by William P. Trent. 

AARON BURR, by Henry Childs Merwin. ABRAHAM LINCOLN, by Brand Whitlock. 

JAMES FENIMORE COOPER, by W. B. Shubrick Clymer. HENRY W. LONGFELLOW, by George Rice Carpenter. 
STEPHEN DECATUR, by Cyrus Townsend Brady. JAMES RUSSELLLOWELL, by Edward Everett Hale.Jf. 

FREDERICK DOUGLASS, by Charles W. Chesnutt. SAMUEL F. B. MORSE, by John Trowbridge. 

RALPH WALDO EMERSON, by Frank B. Sanborn. THOMAS PAINE, by Ellery Sedgwick. 

DAVID G. FARRAGUT, by James Barnes. EDGAR ALLAN POE, by John Macy. 

JOHN FISKE, by Thomas Sergeant Perry. DANIEL WEBSTER, by Norman Hapgood. 

ULYSSES S. GRANT, by Owen Wister. WALT WHITMAN, by Isaac Hull Platt. 

ALEXANDER HAMILTON, by James Schouler. JOHN GREENLEAF WHITTIER, by Richard Burton. 

NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE, by Mrs. James T. Fields. 

Other volumes will be added frovi time to time. 

The general editor of the series is M. A. DeWolfe Howe. 
WHAT IS SAID OF THE SERIES: 

'• The volumes may be considered as ideal for a business man's biographical library," writes an active man of affairs, " the 
chronological epitome at the beginning being an extremely good ready reference. If you have a ' waiting list ' for further 
publications of the Series, kindly enroll my name thereon and forward the volumes as published." 

" They contain exactly what every intelligent American ought to know about the lives of our great men." — Boston Herald, 

" One of the most notable series of biographies ever published in this country." — Denver Republican. 

" Surprisingly complete studies . . . admirably planned and executed." — Christian Register. 

" Prepared as carefully as if they were so many imperial quartos, instead of being so small that they may be carried in the 
pocket." — New York Ttmes. 

" They are books of marked excellence." — Chicago Inter Ocean. 

" They interest vividly, and their instruction is surprisingly comprehensive." — TTie Outlook. 

Price per vol., 50c. net; postage 4c. additional. For sale at all bookstores, or tent direct for 54c. per voL 

Send for descriptive iiamphlet. 

SMALL, MAYNARD & CO., Publishers, 15 Beacon Street, BOSTON 

the dial press, fine arts building, CHICAGO. 



Spring announcement number 




DIAL 



^ SEMI-MONTHLY JOURNAL OF 



\Volume XLVI. nvi^n S.C'd \H S.TfC^'tA 1« 1 QHO io c<s. a copj/.f Fine Arts Building 

J iVo. 546. ^^niVyi^^JW, iVlAXtV^n lO, ±i;Ui;. $z.avear. I 203 Michigan Blvd. 



Edited by 
FRANCIS F. BROWNE J 



SCRIBNER'S SPRING BOOKS 



SIENA: The Story of a Mediaeval Commune 

By FERDINAND SCHEVILL, Professor of History Chicago University. 
Illustrated. $2.50 net. Postpaid $2.75. 

A fascinating and comprehensive account of the history and the art of one of the most interesting cities in the 
world. Professor Schevill, one of the foremost authorities of the day on his subject, has fomided his work 
largely on original researches. He writes in a vivid and interesting way, and treats his subject from every point 
of view. The book is superbly illustrated and gives a beautiful and striking picture of Siena as it is and was. 

SOCIAL ORGANIZATION: A Study 
of the Larger Mind 

By CHARLES HORTON COOLEY 
$1.50 net. Postpaid $1.60. 

An exposition of the effects of social organization on the 
conduct aiid activities of man. 

THE PROBLEM OF HUMAN LIFE 

By RUDOLPH EUCKEN 

Translated by W. S. Hough and W. R. Boyce-Gibson 

$3.00 net. Postpaid $3.30. 

An able and brilliant presentation of the various phi- 
losophies of life. 

HISTORYof CONTEMPORARY CIVILIZATION 

By CHARLES SEIGNOBOS 

Translated by A. H. Wilde 

$1.25 net. 

A history of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries by 
the author of " The History of Mediaeval Civilization." 



ENGLAND AND THE ENGLISH 

From an American Point of View 
$1.50 net. Postpaid $1.60. 

A brilliant, keen and sympathetic study of the traits of 
character which have made the Englishman what he is 
to-day, taking up society, sport, home life, etc. 

EGOISTS: A BOOK OF SUPERMEN 

By JAMES HUNEKER 
$1.50 net. Postpaid $1.60. 

A brilliant account of Stendhal, France, Hello, Stimer, 
Barr^s, Huysmans, and others. 

THE CHURCHES AND THE WAGE EARNERS 

By C. BERTRAND THOMPSON 
$1.00 net. Postpaid $1.10. 

An account of the existing relations of the working 
classes and the different religious organizations, and a 
study of the cause and cure of their separation. 



New Volume of the Narratives of Early American History : 

NARRATIVES OF NEW NETHERLANDS 

Edited by Dr. J. F. JAMESON, with maps and fac-simile reproductions. $3.00 net. Postpaid $3.30. 



^octrp 



ARTEMIS TO ACTAEON 

and Other Verse 

By EDITH WHARTON 
$1.00 net. Postpaid $1.10. 
Mrs. Wharton's first volume of collected jjoems. 

SHELLEY 

By FRANCIS THOMPSON 
About $1.00 net. Postpaid $1.10. 

A fascinating and astonishing study of one gTeat poet 
by another. A masterpiece of critical interpretation. 



ARTEMISION : Idyls and Songs 

By MAURICE HEWLETT 
About $1.00 net. Postpaid $1.10. 

The first volume of verse by Mr. Hewlett. Many other 
poems included have never been jmblished before. 

SEMIRAMIS And Other Plays 

By OLIVE TILFORD DARGAN 
$1.00 net. 

This volume contains three plays, one of which deals 
with the story and character of Edgar Allan Poe. 



CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS, 153 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK 



154 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



SCRIBNER'S SPRING BOOKS 



JFictipn iu8t pnblisjita 



THE KING OF ARCADIA 

By FRANCIS LYNDE 
Illustrated $1.50 

" A really' good and well written mystery story 

that will keep the reader excited to the end." 

— New York Sun. 

"The romance is replete with romantic adven- 
ture, strenuous fighting, and love-making, and 
makes the reader sit up with its stirring inci- 
dents." — Sjiringfield Union. 



THE BUTLER'S STORY 

By ARTHUR TRAIN 
Illustrated $1.25 

Peter Ridges, butler in a very new and very rich family, 
relates in a highly original and entertaining way the 
various adventures of a social, financial, and sentimental 
kind that come under his notice. Peter himself has 
experiences that work out in the course of the book like 
a novel, and he assists in some social scenes in the Carter 
family in town and in the country, in an unexpected 
Wall Street boom, and its consequences in the failure of 
a plot, and in some house parties that make lively and 
exhilarating reading. 



THIS MY SON 

By RENE BAZIN $1.25 

The story of the son of a Breton farmer who tries to make his way as a journalist in Paris, and his 
brother and sister on the farm. 

" A plain tale plainly told, it strikes the tragic note which underlies all human life, especially that 
which works at cross purposes." — Springfield Union. 



THE CHIPPENDALES 

By ROBERT GRANT 

$1.50 

A story of the conflict of old traditions and point of 
view with the new methods of to-day, that is as striking 
and absorbing in matter as it is delightful in manner of 
handling. Blaisdell, a modern hustling man of business, 
invades the inner circle, where the Chippendales, an old 
Boston family, are firmly entrenched. And the incidents 
and situations and outcome of it all make a great novel. 



The lodger OVERHEAD 

AND OTHERS 

By CHARLES BELMONT DAVIS 
Illustrated $1.50 

Mr. Davis tells better stories of New York than anyone 
else, and in this new book he deals skilfully with some 
of the most dramatic and picturesque and hitherto un- 
touched phases of essentially Metropolitan life. His 
thorough familiarity with the life he describes make 
these stories remarkable and absorbing. 



READY IN APRIL 

IN THE WAKE OF THE GREEN BANNER 

Illustrated By EUGENE PAUL METOUR $1.50 

A story of the French occupation of Algeria. Mr. Metour's invention, rich sense of color, brilliant 
characterization, both Caucasian and Oriental, and his rapid narration make it an unflagging delight. 
His picture of the fighting around the oasis proves him a master painter of war. 

READY EARLY IN MAY 
RICHARD HARDING DAVIS'S NEW NOVEL 

,„„..„.., THE WHITE MICE ,,.5. 

An exciting romance of love and adventure, of ingenious plot and thrilling revolution, in a South 
American republic. 



CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS, 153 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK 



1909.] THE DIAL 155 



, 


IMPORTANT 


NEW 


PUBLICATIONS 



" LETTERS OF MRS. JAMES G. BLAINE " 

Edited by HARRIET S. BLAINE BEALE 

" One of the most interesting collections of American letters that have appeared in many years." 
Chicago Tribune. Two volumes, cloth, gilt top, boxed, $4.00 net; by post, $4.15. 



"THE BOOK OF THE DIVINE CONSOLATION OF SAINT 
ANGELA DA FOLIGNO" 

Translated from the Italian by Mary G. Steegmann, with an Introduction, and with reproductions of 
the woodcuts of the original edition, Genoa, 1536. 

"EARLY ENGLISH ROMANCES OF LOVE" 

Edited in modern English, with Introduction and Notes, by Edith Rickert. Illustrated by 
photogravures after illuminations in contemporary MSS. The contents include : Floris and Blancheflour ; 
Sir Orfeo ; Lay of the Ash ; Launfal MUes ; The Earl of Toulouse ; Sir Degrevant ; The Knight of 
Courtesy and the Fair Lady of Faguell; The Squire of Low Degree. 

"EARLY ENGLISH ROMANCES OF FRIENDSHIP" 

Edited in modern English, with Introduction and Notes, by Edith Rickert. Illustrated by 
photogravures after illuminations in contemporary MSS. The contents include : Amis and AmUoun ; 
Sir Amadas ; Athelston ; The Tale of Gamelyn ; Roswall and Lillian ; The Story of Gray-Steel. 
Brown pigskin, antique clasps, $2.00 net; by post, $2.08. 

jReto jFtctton 

H. G. WELLS " TONO-BUNGAY " {3rd edition) 

The Epic of a Patent-Medicine Business 

" Something for everybody was perhaps Mr. Wells's motto in the writing of ' Tono- Bungay.' 

Certainly it contains enough solid matter to furnish the material for a dozen thinly diluted modern 
novels." — Boston Evening Transcript. 
MARGUERITE BRYANT 

"CHRISTOPHER HIBBAULT, ROADMAKER" (2nd edition) 

The story of Christopher's education, his start in life as an engineer, his love for his pretty cousin, 
and his final success. 

W. SOMERSET MAUGHAM " THE MAGICIAN " {2nd edition) 

A striking new novel by the author of "Jack Straw," "Lady Frederick," "The Explorer," etc. 

H. HANDEL RICHARDSON " MAURICE GUEST " 

"There can be no doubt that Mr. Richardson's romantic realism is the best work of fiction of the 
present year." — London Daily News. 

MRS. HENRY DUDENEY " RACHEL LORIAN " 

" A romance of life and temperament well worked out ; a tragedy of life set before us sympathetically 
and with skill and power." — Detroit Free Press. 

ALICE PERRIN " IDOLATRY " 

A new Anglo-Indian novel by the author of "The Waters of Destruction," "East of Suez," etc. 

AT ALL BOOKSELLERS OR $1.50 POSTPAID FROM 



DUFFELD^COMPANY 

36WEST3??ST.^EnEW YORK 



156 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



SCRIBNER'S SPRING BOOKS 



Kmpottant %^tolosita\ IBoofegf 



THE FAITH OF A MODERN 
PROTESTANT 

By Professor WILHELM BOUSSET 

75 cents net. Postpaid 80 cents. 

An inspiring attempt to show what Christian faith, the 
belief in the Fatherhood of God as proclaimed by Jesus 
Christ, means for mankind to-day. Religion is ap- 
proached from the side of vital spiritual experience, 
viewed, not as a result of metaphysical enquiry, but as 
a personal venture; a reaching out of faith into the 
unknown. 

A WORKING THEOLOGY 

By ALEXANDER MacCOLL 
75 cents net. Postpaid 80 cents. 

A clear statement of the principles of theology which 
remain to the modem man of to-day from the contro- 
versies of the past and present, and which he can use as 
a basis for his own moral code of life. 

THE CHRISTIAN DOCTRINE 
OF GOD 

By W. N. CLARKE, D.D. 
$2.50 net. Postpaid $2.75. 

This new volume in the International Theological Li- 
brary is an attempt to present the Christian conception 
of God, his character, and his relations with men. Pro- 
fessor Clarke shows the view of God for which Chris- 
tianity stands responsible, the doctrines grounded in 
Christian revelation, developed in history, and then re- 
stated once more in the presence of modem knowledge. 

MODERNISM 

By PAUL SABATIER 

$1.25 net. 

"We know of no other book in English which gives 
quite so vivid an impression of the vitality of the liberal 
movement in the Romish Church." — The Westminster. 



EPOCHS IN THE LIFE OF PAUL 

By A. T. ROBERTSON, D.D. 
$1.25 net. Postpaid $1.35. 

An eloquent and stimulating study of the important 
phases in the life of St. Paul. Orthodox in tone and 
profoundly scholarly, it is yet full of new and interest- 
ing suggestions. 

THE GOSPEL AND THE CHURCH 

By ALFRED LOISY 

With an introduction by Newman Smyth, D.D. 

$1.00 net. 

In his introduction to this new edition of this famous 
book Dr. Newman Smyth gives a brilliant study of 
Modernism, and of the work and views of M. Loisy. 

THE DICTIONARY OF THE BIBLE 

Complete in one volume. 

Edited by JAMES HASTINGS, D.D. 

With maps and illustrations. 

$5.00 net 

"An immense amount and variety of information is 
packed into the 1000 double-column and closely 
printed pages of this book. Bible teachers will welcome 
it." — Chicago Tribune. 

THE 

PSYCHOLOGICAL PHENOMENA 

OF CHRISTIANITY 

By GEORGE BARTON CUTTEN, Ph.D. 

$2.50 net. Postpaid $2.70. 

"The whole range of phenomena of Christianity has 
been included, normal and abnormal, pathological and 
beautiful. It is a book of uncommon clarity and matu- 
rity of thought." — Chicago Tribune. 



Each volume sold separately. 
$1.00 net. 

To be complete in six volumes. 



Ready Early in April 

Volume III. THE HISTORICAL BIBLE 

By CHARLES FOSTER KENT, Ph.D. 
The third volume of this series, entitled " The Kings and Prophets of Israel and Judah." With each 
complete narrative are given in brief, simple, practical form, introductory, interpretative, historical, and 
archieological notes, arranged under descriptive heads. 



CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS, 153 FIFTH AVENUE', NEW YORK 



1909.] THE DIAL 157 



^' 




THE WATCHERS OF THE PLAINS 

A Tale of the Western Prairies. By RiDGWELL CuLLUM. 
With frontispiece in color by J. C. Leyendecker. Large 
i2mo, cloth $1.50 

^ ^^B^^^^^^^^^ A story of Dakota in the 70's, depicting one of the Indian uprisings 
that were so frequent and so terrible in those days. It is strong in plot, 
vivid in action, and of great interest. Seth is a character no one can fail 
to admire. 

ROBESPIERRE AND THE FRENCH 
REVOLUTION 

By Hon. Charles F. Warwick, author of "Mirabeau and 
V^ the French Revolution," etc. Illustrated from rare engravings. 

^^'^ ■ ^^^^^,-^ 8vo, cloth, stamped in gold net $2.50 

This is the third volume of Mr. Warwick's great trilogy on the French 

From Leyendecker's Frontispiece of Revolution. Besides being a complete biography of the great leader whose 

Watchers of the Plains" name it bears, the book also gives a full account of the summary of the 

chief events and happenings of the entire Revolution. Instead of the monster generally depicted, Mr. Warwick makes 

Robespierre very human indeed, — weak, revengeful and selfish it is true, but at heart a man and not a beast. 

UNIFORM WITH THE ABOVE 

MIRABEAU AND THE FRENCH REVOLUTION net $2.50 

DANTON AND THE FRENCH REVOLUTION not 2.50 

The Three Volumes Boxed net 7.50 

THE MENACE OF SOCIALISM 

By W. Lawler Wilson. 8vo, cloth net $1.50 

The author has taken a prominent part, as writer and speaker, in the campaign against Socialism now being con- 
ducted in England. The book is comprehensive and original. It considers Socialism and Anti-Socialism as the two 
great economic forces which are about to enter into a struggle for supremacy that will decide the political future of the 
Western World. It forecasts a great outbreak of Social Revolution in Europe within the next three or four years. 

"STONEWALL JACKSON" (American Crisis Biographies) 

By Henry Alexander White, Ph.D. lamo, cloth. With frontispiece portrait . . net $1.25 
The value of this book lies in the fact that it is written by the men whose knowledge of the life of the great Southern 
General is everywhere recognized as preeminently authoritative and exhaustive. Indeed, Dr. White's acquaintance 
with the remarkable character of Jackson is so well known that he was requested by Mr. Henderson, Jackson's English 
biographer, to revise the proof sheets of his two-volume Life. 

SKAT MADE EASY 

A simple exposition of the fundamental rules governing the game. By Agnes Henry. Square 

i6mo, cloth net $0.50 

Skat has long been a favorite game in Germany and is now becoming deservedly popular in America. The great 
difficulty that has heretofore confronted the novice is the lack of any text book simple enough to be understood by the 
learner. This difficulty, it is hoped, has been met in this little book by Mrs. Henry. All explanations have been 
made as clear and concise as possible, while some examples of possible hands and the manner of playing same form a 
very practical feature. 

THE DOCTOR SAYS 

A Book of Advice for the Household, with Practical Hints for the Preservation of Health and the 

Prevention of Disease. Large i2mo. Neatly bound in cloth net $1.00 

This is an attempt, on the part of a reputable physician, to place before the readers, in an intelligible way and 
interesting form, the chief facts of medicine and surgery with which it is proper and useful for this to be acquainted. 
While the directions given can in no way take the place of personal advice, such detailed information has been given 
that, should the reader be far away from the doctor, he may still be able to discoverthe cause of his illness and to select an 
efficient remedy. This book should be a valuable addition to every household, especially those in remote country districts. 

THE SUNDAY SCHOOL TEACHER'S MANUAL 

Designed as an Aid to Teachers in Preparing Sunday-School Lessons. Edited by Rev. William M. 

Groton, S.T.D. i2mo, cloth net $1.00 

The purpose of the manual is not only to furnish instruction in approved methods of preparing and teaching the 
lesson, but also to impart the information concerning the Scriptures and the Church which often lies beyond his imme- 
diate reach. The various articles contained in it have been reduced to as small a compass as the usefulness of the 
book will allow. ==^^^==== 

GEORGE W. JACOBS & CO., 1226 WALNUT ST„ PHILADELPHIA 



158 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



DODD, MEAD & COMPANY'S 



NEW FICTION 



SPRING 1909 



THE BRONZE BELL 

By LOUIS JOSEPH VANCE 

Author of " THE BRASS BOWL," " THE BLACK 

BAG," etc. 

Illustrations in color by Harrison Fisher. 

ISmo, cloth. $1.50. 

A splendid story of a mystery followed half way round 

the world. A delightfully romantic ending. 



THE ALTERNATIVE 

By GEORGE BARR McCUTCHEON 

Author of "Graustark," "The Day of the Dog," etc. 

Illustrations in color by Harrison Fisher. 

Decorations by Theodore B. Hapgood. 

12mo, cloth. $1.25. 

Told with Mr. McCutcheon's inimitable knack of turning 

a slight subject into a story which will delight thousands 

of readers. 



KINGSMEAD 

By BETTINA VON HUTTEN 
Author of " PAM." " PAM DECIDES." etc. 

Frontispiece in color by Will Foster. 12mo, cloth: $1.50. 

As entertaining and vivacious as " Pam." 



THE ROYAL END 

By HENRY HARLAND 

Author of "The Cardinal's Snu£f Box," "My Friend 

Prospero," etc. 

l^mo, cloth. $1.50. 

This story, the author's last, has the characteristic charm 

of his other novels. 

An interesting feature of " The Royal End " is the fact 
that Mrs. Harland collaborated with her husband in its 
production, and after his death brought it to completion. 



THE RED MOUSE 

By WILLIAM HAMILTON 
OSBORNE 
With full-page illustrations in 
color by the Kinneys and Har- 
rison Fisher. 

12mo, cloth. $1.50. 
One of the " six best sellers." 
An interesting romance of social 
and political adventure. 



THE WHIRL 

By FOXCROFT DAVIS 
Full-page illustrations in color by 
B. Martin Justice. Hmo, cloth. $1.60. 
A story of Washington diplomatic so- 
ciety, with a dash of adventure, and the 
spice of a big political intrigue, a per- 
fectly fascinating heroine, and strong 
and stubborn hero. 



THE GIRL AND THE BILL 

An American story of mystery, 

romance, and adventure. 

By BANNISTER MERWIN 

With cover design by Harrison 

Fisher, and illustrations in color 

by the Kinneys. 

12mo, cloth. $1.60. 
A series of as thrilling, mystifying, 
and exciting adventures as can be 
crammed into one story. 



THE MUSIC MASTER 

By CHARLES KLEIN 

Author of "THE LION AND THE MOUSE," etc. 

Full-page illustrations in color by John Mae. 

12mo, cloth. $1.50. 

Novelized from the successful play as produced by 

David Belasco. 



THE ETERNAL BOY 

Being the story of the prodigious Hickey. 

By OWEN JOHNSON 

Author of " The Arrows of the Almighty," etc. 

Fully illustrated. 12mo, cloth. $1.50. 

" A new character study of the American youngster, fit 

to rank with Aldrich's ' Bad Boy,' and Mark Twain's 

■ Tom Sawyer.' " — Brooklyn Eagle. 



THE HAND ON THE LATCH 

By MARY CHOLMONDELEY 

Author of "RED POTTAGE," "PRISONERS," etc. 

Illustrated. IZmo, cloth. $1.25. 

One of the best and strongest books of the season. 



THE GLASS HOUSE 

By FLORENCE MORSE KINGSLEY 

Author of "The Transfiguration of Miss Philura," "The 

Resurrection of Miss Cynthia," etc. 

Illustrations by Alice Barber Stephens. 

l2mo, cloth. $1.50. 

A charming story, healthy and uplifting in tone. 



THE PULSE OF LIFE 

By MRS. BELLOC LOWNDES 
Author of "The Heart of Penelope," "Barbara Rebel," etc. 

12mo, doth. $1.50. 
The author introduces us to an unfamiliar world — the 
reserved, exclusive, distinguished circle of the old Catholic 
nobility in England to-day. 



THE HANDS OF COMPULSION 

By AMELIA E. BARR 
Author of "Jan Vedder's Wife," "The Bow of Orange 
Ribbon," etc. 
Frontispiece by Walter Eniett. 12mo, cloth. $1.50. 
This is a story of the Isle of Arran, written with Mrs. 
Barr's intimate knowledge of Scottish people and their 
ways, which has made "Jan Vedder," "A Border Shep- 
herdess," etc., so deservedly popular. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



159 



DODD, MEAD & COMPANY'S 

MISCELLANEOUS PUBLICATIONS :: SPRING 1909 
WHAT IS PHYSICAL LIFE 

By WILLIAM HANNA THOMSON, M.D., LL.D., author of " BRAIN AND PERSONALITY." 

12mo, cloth. Probably net $1.50. 
Dr. Thomson's name has become famous by reason of the success of his " Brain and Personality." There is every 
reason to believe this new book will also be an epoch-maker. Everyone who wants a clear unteehnical exposition 
of the basis of physical life should read Dr. Thomson's new book. 



MR. CLEVELAND A Personal Impression 

By JESSE LYNCH WILLIAMS, author of " Princeton Stories," etc. 
Illustrated. 16mo, cloth. Net 50 cents. 
Mr. Williams, who' was a close personal friend of Mr. Cleveland, has compiled this appreciative volume with a 
desire to make a real contribution to the memory of the great American. 



THE GREAT WET WAY 

By ALAN DALE 

Dramatic critic of the New York American. 

100 illustrations by H. B. Martin. Hmo, cloth. Net, $1.50. 

This book, the result of fifty trips across the Atlantic, 
discusses every conceivable phase of life in the big Liner, 
and is thoroughly amusing and unique. Everyone who has 
crossed or is going to cross ought to read it. 



THE BLUE BIRD 

A Fairy Play in Five Acts 
By MAURICE MAETERLINCK, author of "The Life of 
the Bee," " Wisdom and Destiny," etc. 
Translated by Alexander Teixeira de Mattos. 
12mo, cloth. Net, $1.20. 
A play about children, written for adults, and it is alto- 
gether charming. In its atmosphere of wonder and magic, 
and its delightful fidelity to the nature of children, it is 
much like " Peter Pan." 



A HANDBOOK OF MODERN FRENCH PAINTING 

By D. CADY EATON, B.A., M.A., Professor of the History and Criticism of Art (emeritus) Yale University. 

250 illustrations. 8vo, cloth. Probably net $2.50. 

Here, in compact and convenient form, one can find brief biographies of all French artists of any note whatever, from the 
time of Watt«au to the present day. Besides the biographies, the volume contains interesting and illuminating criticisms 
of the masterpieces of modem French painters, written in a non-technical manner. 



STUDIES IN SEVERAL LITERATURES 

By HARRY THURSTON PECK, Litt.D. 

lemo, cloth. Net $1.20. 

The volume contains twelve essays relating to some of the famous books and authors of the world, as well as to several 

literary movements. 



CULTURE BY SELF-HELP 

On a literary, an academic, or an 

oratorical career. 
By ROBERT WATERS, author of 
"Culture by Conversation," 
"John Selden and His Table 
Talk," etc. 

12mo, cloth. Net $1.20. 



TOWARDS THE LIGHT 

A Poem. 

By Her Excellency the Princess 

MARY KARADJA 

16mo, cloth. Net 50 cents. 



THE METHODS OF 
TAXATION 

Compared with the Established 
Principles of Justice. 

By DAVID MacGREGOR MEANS 

Author of " Industrial Freedom." 

8vo, cloth. Probably 7iet $2,60. 



160. 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



NEJV SPRING BOOKS— 1909 



P UBLI8HED FEBR UA R Y 



BILL TRUETELL: A Story of Theatrical Life 



By George H. Brennan. With frontis- 
piece in colors, and numerous text and 
full-page drawings by James Mont- 
gomery Flagg. Large 12mo, $1.50. 

IN " Bill Truetell" George H. Brennan a 
"well-known New York theatrical man, 
tells the story of an old-school manager's 
vicissitudes in touring the East. Truetell 
leaves New York with his '• Gay Goth- 
amites." At his first stopping place his 
leading soubrette leaves him, and " the 
little Van Balken,"' a stranded vaudeville 
artist, takes her place and becomes at once 
a new inspiration in Truetell's life. With 
Rupert Steelson, the loyal exponent of 
Shakespeare, Truetell meets more acute 
troubles which threaten to down him alto- 
gether. 

The book is essentially true in spirit and 




largely in incident. The atmosphere of 
theatrical life is well reproduced in Mr. 
Brennan's characterizations of minor fol- 
lowers of the stage, as well as in the col- 
ored frontispiece and many full-page and 
text illustrations by James Montgomery 
Flagg, who, like Mr. Brennan, was tread- 
ing familiar ground in making these 
graphic studies. 

Heady March 20 

WHAT IS A PICTURE? 

Square 8vo, boards. 60 cents net. 
'pAKING pictures as his starting point, the 
author briefly surveys the field of art the- 
ory in a clear and concrete manner, and the 
reader is given some leading ideas by which 
his future appreciation of pictures will be 
guided and enlarged. 



Published March 6 — Second Edition March 15 

THE DELAFIELD AFFAIR 

By Florence Finch Kelly, 
author of " With Hoops of 
Steel." With four illustra- 
tions in full color by May- 
nard Dixon. Large 12nio. 
$1.50. 

'pHIS is a stirring tale of love 
-*■ and revenge in the pictur- 
esque Southwest. Curtis Con- 
rad, superintendent of a ranch 
near Golden, New Mexico, has 
sworn to kill the man who ruined 
his father's fortunes. He con- 
fides his purpose to his friend 
Aleck Bancroft, who seeks in 
vain to dissuade him from it. 
Meanwhile Conrad falls in love 
with Lucy, Bancroft's daughter, 
and when a shady politician 
tells him that Bancroft is the 
owner of an assumed name and 
is the man he seeks to kill, he 
naturally spurns the idea. Such 
is the situation with which Flor- 
ence Finch Kelly confronts her 
readers in the beginning of 
"The Delafield Affair." 




Published March 6 

MISSION TALES IN THE DAYS OF THE DONS 

By Mrs. A. S. C. Forbes, author of " California Missions and 
Landmarks." With numerous illustrations and decorations 
in tint by Langdon Smith. Large 12mo. $1.50. 

A SERIES of twelve tales that 
■^^ breathe the old-time roman- 
tic atmosphere of earliest Cali- 
fornia. Spanish dons, equally 
proud if untitled Indians, priests, 
and an occasional pirate were 
among the elements that met 
when the Europeans planted the 
cross in token of spiritual sov- 
ereignty over the red men's land. 
Such diverse elements have, per- 
haps, never mingled in any other 
country. Certamly the tales 
handed down from the days when 
the adobe mission houses were 
filled with Indians, have an at- 
mosphere of their own which is 
nowhere else approached. All 
the stories in this book are based 
upon historic incident ; and in 
their telling, the vivid contrasts 
and gentle incongruities of Indian 
and priestly association are sym. 
pathetically shown. 




Ready March IS 

THE SUMMER GARDEN 
OF PLEASURE 

By Mrs. Stephen Batson, author of " A 
Concise Handbook of Garden Flowers." 
With 36 illustrations in color by Osmund 
Pittman. Index. Large 8vo. $3.50 net. 

A GARDEN iu bloom from April to Septem- 
^'^ ber with no August interregnum is the 
ideal set forth in Mrs. Batson's splendidly 
illustrated volume. After a chapter on the 
Wild Garden, the flowers are taken up in the 
order of their flowering and their character- 
istics and care described. Altliough her book 
is, from one standpoint, a practical text book, 
it is far more. Mrs. Batson treats her subject 
with "an intimate knowledge and deliglit," 
every reader. The thirty-sue illustrations by 
delightful studies of the garden, and to city 
stant refreshment as weU as an adequate 
delightful text. 




Published 

THE RAILWAY MAIL SERVICE 

By Clark E. Carr, author of " The Illini," 
etc. Illustrated. Indexed. 8vo, bound 
in boards. 50 cents iifl. 
'■j""HE first complete history of the railway 
^ mail service is here reprinted from Colonel 
Carr's "My Day and Generation." Though 
primarily demanded by the members of that 
service, this book will be read with interest by 
everybody. 

Ready in April 

JANE HAMILTON'S RECIPES 



By Charlotte M. Poindexter. 
16mo. $1.00. 



Boards. 



which will captivate 
Osmund Pittman are 
dwellers will be a con- 
interpretation of the 



'■pHESE recipes are four generations old, the garnered culinary wis- 
-*- dom of an historic Virginia family. And the housewife who follows 
them in the cooking of staple dishes, as well as in the characteristic 
Southern dishes, will find her results distinctly above contemporary 
efforts. The author is the wife of Lieutenant F. L. Poindexter, U . S. A 



A. C. McCLURG & CO. 



PUBLISHERS 



CHICAGO 



1909.] 



THE DIAl^ 



161 



NEW SPRING BOOKS— 1909 



READY APRIL 17 

LETTERS FROM CHINA: With Particular Reference to the Empress Dowager 
and the Women of China 

By Sarah Pike Conger 

Profusely illustrated. Index. Crown 
8vo, red cloth, stamped in white, gold, 
and green. $2.75 net. 



'T'HE dismissal from office of Yaun-Shih- 
Kdi, following the death of the Empress 
Dowager, gives a most timely interest to this 
sidelight on Chinese life and politics. Mrs. 
Conger was the wife of the American Min- 
ister in China from 1898 to 1904, a period 
which included the Boxer troubles. Her 
letters to relatives in America form the text 
of this book, which is illustrated by a unique 
collection of photographs including portraits 
of the late Empress Dowager and the ladies 




Prince Vh'ing 



of her retinue, and published by her special 
permission. Mrs. Conger's relations with the 
Dowager Empress were most intimate, and 
these letters reveal her in a new and kindlier 
light. ■ 

Published 

TRUE MANHOOD 

By James Cardinal Gibbons. Boards. 

18mo. 50 cents net. 
■ IF you disclose to me your character I 
will reveal to you your destiny." Such 
is the place that character assumes in the 
eyes of Cardinal Gibbons. The book is in no 
■way sectarian, its application is wide-spread, 
and its style is compact and vigorous. 




Ready March 13 

THE EMPIRE OF THE EAST: Japan a« 

1 It Was, Is, and 
i. Will Be 

'- By H. B. Montgom- 
S- ery. With frontis- 
piece in color and 
16 other illustra- 
tions. Index. Large 
Svo. $2.50 net. 

MR. MONTGOM- 
ERY takes Japan 
seriously. Through- 
out his work he avoids 
the bizarre and pre- 
sents a comprehensive 
picture of an active nation, bending all its energies toward national 
progress and extension of trade. That Japan wUl discourage foreign 
enterprise on her soil, when it is legitimate, or that she 
will enlist China as an engme of destruction against 
the Western world, Mr. Montgomery does not believe. 
His chapters on Japanese art are unusually explicit. 

Ready in April 

A SUMMER IN TOURAINE 

By Frederic Lees. With twelve plates in full 
color, and many other full-page illustrations, 
and a map. Large Svo. $2.75 7iet. 

TN this delightfully written and illustrated work, 
Mr. Lees takes us down the Loire, Vienne, and 
Cher, and through the country which Balzac's de- 
scriptions still fit, and in which the Renaissance is a 
living memory of yesterday. The book has all the 
authority of a guide book, and is a veritable picture 
of the background of the Renaissance in Europe. 





Ready in April 

THE ANDEAN LAND By Chase S. Osbom. 

Two volumes, 
with over fifty 
illustrations and 
four maps. In- 
dexed. Large 
Svo. $5.00 net. 
'pHIS description 
-*- of the republics 
and colonies of 
South America com- 
bines a breezy anec- 
dotal style vrith an 
encyclopicdic range 
of subjects, pertain- 
ing to the history, 
geography, trade, and social conditions in the picturesque lands, some 
of which are here described for the first time. The table of distances 
and accounts of currency systems make it an author- 
itative guide book. Mr. Osbom writes with an 
authority born of intimate acquaintance.. 

Published 

MAKING THE MOST of OURSELVES 

Talks for Young People. Second Series. 

By Calvin Dill Wilson, author of " Making the 
Most of Ourselves," First Series ; " Canter- 
bury Tales Retold for Young Readers," etc. 
16mo. $1.00 net. 

n^O the end that his readers may not only develop 
-*- but profitably use their personal powers, Mr. 
Wilson discusses many sides of living. Literature 
and the appreciation of poetry, and such matters as 
holding a job, digging information out of books, and 
formmg young men's clubs, are treated in a practi- 
cal manner. 




Ready in April 

MAKING THE BEST OF 
THINGS SERIES 

The Point of View — A Talk on 
Relaxation — Mental Hygiene in 
Daily Living. By Alice K. Fallows. 
Decorated boards. Square 12mo. 
Elach, 35 cents 7iet. 
ATISS FALLOWS, a co-worker with 
-'-'-'- her father. Bishop Samuel Fallows, 
in the Emmanuel movement, treats the 
practical side of self-help through mind 
cure in these volumes. They are written 
in non-technical language, and as an easy 
introduction to this new method of effi- 
cient living, will be found most valuable. 



Ready in April 

ART OF SPEECH AND 
DEPORTMENT 

By Anna Morgan 

SELECTED READING 

Compiled by Anna Morgan 
Two vols., 12mo, each $1.50 net. 

TN "The Art of Speech and Deport- 
-*- ment," everythuig that goes to make 
the pleasing and powerful speaker is 
treated in detail. 

From Tolstoi to O. Henry, from 
Boccaccio to Edward Everett Hale, Uter- 
ature pays tribute to " Selected Read- 
ings." In the dramatic section, Shaw 
and Molit're are found side by side. 




A. C. McCLURG & CO. 



PUBLISHERS 



CHICAGO 



162 THE DIAL [March 16, 



NO BOOK OF RECENT YEARS 

Has elicited stronger or more enthusiastic commen- 
dation from thoughtful readers everywhere than 

Peace, Power and Plenty 

By ORISON SWETT MARDEN 

Editor of "Success," author of "Every Man a King," etc. 
(l2mo, cloth, $1.00 net. Postage 10 cents.) 

" Will keep readers young," says John Burroughs. 

" You preach a sound, vigorous, wholesome doctrine, and preach it with much 
eloquence. The book will keep your readers young." 

" Vital, uplifting, transforming," says Miss Lilian Whiting. 

" Into what magic do you dip your pen to create so vital, so uplifting, so trans- 
forming a book ? It is indeed a hand-book for every day." 

" A mental and moral tonic," says Mrs. Burton Kingsland. . 

"It is to me a mental and moral tonic, a refreshment and an inspiration. Your 
vigorous and helpful words have roused me." 

" One chapter worth $500," says Samuel Brill. 

"I am so enthusiastic about your book that I have notified my employees in all 
our stores of its publication and asked them to buy it. The chapter on 'Health ' 
alone is worth $500." 

" A forcible presentation," says David Starr Jordan. 

" I have read the book with much interest. I find it very well written, and a forcible 
presentation of the strength involved in calmness and cleanliness." 

" A call to fuller life," says Ralph Waldo Trine. 

" One of those rare books whose every page contains something of great suggestive 
value. It is cheery, alive, inspiring, and it hasn't a dull paragraph in it. It will be 
the call to a new, a fuller life to many thousands." 

" Needed by my race," says Booker T. Washington. 

"I wish I were able to translate its message into the hearts and minds of all my 
people. It preaches the gospel that a race which is trying to get on its feet needs." 



Read the Marden Inspirational Books! 

PUBLISHED BY 

THOMAS Y. CROWELL & CO., NEW YORK CITY 



1909] THE DIAL. 163 

THREE NEW PLAYS READY 

IN THE MONUMENTAL 

First Folio Shakespeare 

Edited by CHARLOTTE PORTER and HELEN A. CLARKE 

Issued, a play to a volume, with full introductions, notes, glossaries, and variorum readings. 

The only Popular Price Edition which reproduces 
exactly the original First Folio of 1623. 

JUST PUBLISHED 

The Merry Wives of Windsor All's Well That Ends Well 

Measure for Measure . 

ALREADY ISSUED 

A Midsommer Nights Dreame. Henry the Fift. 

Loves Labour's Lost. Much Adoe About Nothing. 

The Comedie of Errors. Romeo and Juliet. 

The Merchant of Venice. The Tempest. 

The Tragedie of Macbeth. The Tragedie of Othello. 

The Tragedie of Julius Caesar. The Winters Tale. 

The Tragedie of Hamlet. The Taming of the Shrew. 

The Tragedie of King Lear. The Two Gentlemen of Verona. 

Twelfe Night, or What You Will. The Tragedie of Coriolanus. 

As You Like It. 

Size of volumes, ^}( x 6%. 
Cloth, 75 cents; limp leather, $i.oo per volume. 



Horace H. Furness says: "My heartiest congratulations on an important and attractive 
undertaking. . . , I think you do Vi^isely and shrewdly in reprinting the First Folio." 

Hamilton W. Mabie says: "A great gain for Shakespearean students." 

Brander Matthews says: " The most useful edition now available for students." 

The Dial says : " It would be difficult to praise this edition too highly." 

PUBLISHED ONLY BY 

THOMAS Y. CROWELL & CO., NEW YORK CITY 



164 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



ICatrine 



By ELINOR MACARTNEY LANE 



the 
author of 

nancy Stair 



KATRINE is the first novel which Mrs. Lane has publish- 
ed since her brilliant story of "Nancy Stair." Those 



who have read both books agree in recognizing KATRINE as 
the greater successor of a great romance. In KATRINE, as in 
" Nancy Stair," a beautiful, magnetic woman takes the leading 
part. This is a romance of picturesque love-making, of separation, of the woman's 
triumph through her natural gifts, of a man's awakening and his battle with 
realities, and, finally, it is a romance not only of a woman's achievement, but of an 
all-conquering love. 



HARPER'S 

NEW B 

o 

O 

K 

S 



JVitk Frontispiece. Post 8vo, Cloth, ■$i.jo. 



The PLANTER 

By HERMAN WHITAKER 

A MAINE youth — full of" ambition and a 
keen zest for life — begins his career on a 
rub'oer plantation in Mexico, as manager of a busi- 
ness concern which in reality is a trickster's enter- 
prise, although he does not know it. He meets and 
loves a beautiful Mexican girl, a revelation after the 
giggles and smirks to which he has been accustomed. 
The romance which follows is full of peril and 
hardships, of love and success. This novel is most 
unusual in its atmospheric charm ; in fact, the 
portrayal is so absolutely new and vivid that 
it is prophesied the book will be the " Uncle 
Tom's Cabin " of this tragedy of Indian ser- 
vitude. 

With Frontispiece. Post 8vo, Cloth, S^-JO. 



By LOUISE CLOSSER HALE 

IT is by the actress herself — this story of a New 
York girl who gives up her sweetheart for the 
stage. The fun and the tears of stage life — the 
real, not the scandal kind — reveal the actress as an 
original, frank, humorous, likable girl. The man 
is prosperous, level-headed, and knows just what 
the feminine "artistic temperament" really 
needs. Naturally he hasn't much sympathy with 
the " career." 

The girl is determined to be a great artiste, 
and, putting her sweetheart aside — But the 
actress tells her heart-story better than any one 
else can. 

Pictorial Cover. Illustrated. Post 8vo, Cloth, 
S1.30. 



The Gorgeous Borgia 

By JUSTIN HUNTLY McCARTHY 

THE t3'rant Caesar Borgia, who turned happiness into 
misery, song into groans, life into death. He was as 
"beautiful as a tiger, and as bright and strong as a tiger, and 
truly as cruel as a tiger." He murders his brother, the Duke 
of Gandia. An unsuspecting girl, in her ignorant beauty, 
adores him. Herself of the rival house of Orsini, she is elect- 
ed to slay the tyrant, not dreaming that he is her lover. The 
story is riotous with the Roman life in this period. 

Pictorial Wrapper in Colors. Post Svo, Cloth, ■$i.jo. 



HARPER'S LIBRARY 
of LIVING THOUGHT 

16mo, Gilt Tops and Backs, Decorative 
Carer, Cloth, 75 cents 7iet. 

A RESPONSE lo the special demand of 
the century now opening:. Tiie central 
living thought in the intellectual move- 
ments of the day in permanent book form and 
at a low price. Three volumes now ready: 
Three Plays of Shakespeare. By 

Algernon Charles S'winburne. 
Personal Religion in Egypt Before 
Christianity. By W. M. Flinders Petrie. 
The Teaching of Jesus. By Count Leo 
Tolstoi. 



LIFE AND LETTERS OF LORD MACAULAY 

By HIS NEPHEW, THE RIGHT HON. SIR OTTO TREVELYAN, Bart. 

THIS recognized, complete, and splendid biography of Macaulay comes out this spring in new form, with much new 
matter and in two editions. " Macaulay's Marginal Notes," once published separately, is now incorporated in the 
biography, making Chapter XVI, and bringing in matter of great value. This has made necessary new appendices, 
etc., as well as other changes and improvements. — Two editions : One volume. Crown 8to, Cloth, Gilt Top, ivith 
Portrait, $2.00. Two volumes, Svo, Cloth, Gilt Tops, with Portrait, in a box, $5.00. 

HARPER & BROTHERS, Publishers, NEW YORK 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



165 



PUTNAM'S NEW BOOKS 



Volume III. Renascence and Reformation. Now ready 

The Cambridge History of English 

Literature 

Edited by A. W. Ward, Litt.D., and A. R. Waller, M.A. 

To be in 14 Volumes. Price per volume $2.60. 

Subscriptions received for the complete work at $31.50 net, payable at the rate of $2.25, 

on the notification of the publication of each volume. 

Previously issued: Vol. I. From the Beginning: to the Cycles of Romance. Vol. II. The End of the Middle Ages. 

" The editors of this volume . . . have produced a book which is indispensable to any serious student of English 

literature. The individual articles are in several instances contributions of great value to the discussion of their 

subjects, and one of them is of first-rate importance in English literary history." — Athenoium,. 

Send for Descriptive Circular 



Fraternity 



By John Qalsworthy 

Author of " The Country House," etc. $1.35 net. 
" A remarkable power of ironic insight combined with 
an extremely keen and faithful eye for all the phenomena 
on the surface of life." — Joseph Conrad. 

Shelburne Essays sixth series 

By Paul Elmer More $1.25 ne<. 

Contents : 
The Forest Philosophy of India — The Bhagavad Glta — 
Saint Augustine — Pascal— Sir Thomas Browne— Bunyan 
— Eousseau — Socrates — The Apology — Plato. 

Fighting the Turk in the 
Balkans 

By A. H. D. Smith illustrated. $1.75 net. 

Narrates the thrilling adventures of a y.oung American 
who for several months joined a band of Macedonian 
gnerrilas. 

" A very remarkable story of adventure." — N. Y. Times, 



The Philosophy of Self Help 

By Stanton Davis Kirkham 

Author of " The Ministry of Beauty," etc. 

Crown 8vo. $1.25 net. 

A book designed to show how, by a training and use of 

the mind, it is possible for every one to secure at least a 

large measure of mental health and: physical well-being. 

The Century of the Child 

By Ellen Key $1.50 Jie*. 

Some of Miss Key's ideas are strongly revolutionary, but 
in educational questions she shows originality, and her 
writings have a wide appeal among progressive people. 
In the matter of the education of children she is the foe 
of mechanical methods and recommends a large liberty in 
the bringing-up of young people. 

The Federal Civil Service as 
a Career 

By E. B. K. Foltz $1.50 net. 

A handbook for the applicant for Federal positions, the 
officeholder, the economist, and the busy citizen. It is a 
book of facts, concisely stated, free from technicalities, 
and arranged with a view to practical use. 



Volume V. Completing the Work 

The Greatness and Decline of Rome 

By Quglielmo FerrerO. Authorized Translation. 5 Volumes. Each, %2.m net. 

Vol. V. THE REPUBLIC OF AUGUSTUS 

Previously issued: Vol. I. THE EMPIRE BUILDERS Vol. III. THE FALL OF AN ARISTOCRACY 

Vol. II. JULIUS C^SAR Vol. IV. ROME AND EGYPT 

The continued large demand has exhausted the edition of Volumes I., II., III., and IV. New impressions of these 
volumes will be ready early in April. 



The Great Lakes 

By James Oliver Curwood Fully illustrated. $3.50 nc<. 

The romance attaching to the past history of the Lakes and not less the romance of the present — the story of the 
great commercial fleets that plough our inland seas, created to transport the fruits of the earth and the metals that are 
dug from the bowels of the earth. Comparatively little has been written of these fresh-water seas, and many readers will 
be amazed at the wonderful story which this volume tells. 

Send for New Announcement Lists 



Putnam's 
Magazine 



Q. P. PUTNAM'S SONS 

NEW YORK AND LONDON ^ 



The 

Knickerbocker 

Press 



166 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



SPRING BOOKS OF INTEREST AND VALUE 



(PUBLISHED IN MARCH) 



ALICE BROWN'S 



The Story of Thyrza 



" A strong book. Presents a study of the Puritan conscience and temperament that is full of penetrating 
insight and clever analysis. . . . Alice Brown's heroine might be said to be a Hester Pryne under contem- 
porary conditions. . . . A fine example of literary craftsmanship." — £roo/cJi/n JSofirie. 

With frontispiece in color by A lice Barber Stephens. $1.36 net. Postpaid, |1.60. 



ARTHUR GILMAN'S 



My Cranford 



A phase of the quiet life, as seen in a country village, which has inspired the author with some delightful 
reminiscences and reflections. Illustrated. $1.25 net. Postpaid, $1.40. 



WILLIAM VAUGHN MOODY'S 



The Faith Healer 



" A closely knit, steadily cumulative and absorbing drama that engrosses and thrills even in the comparative 
tameness of the printed page. ... A drama of action and of conflict." — Boston Transcript. 

$1.00 net. Postpaid, $1.10. 



BORDEN PARKER BOWNE'S 



Studies in Christianity 



A practical attempt to combine the new theology and the old religion, by a leading American scholar. 

$1.50 7iet. Postage extra. 



GEORGE E. WOODBERRY'S 



The Life of Poe 



The authoritative life of this most interesting of American poets by one of the foremost of living poets and 
critics. Two volumes. Fully illustrated. $5.00 net. Postpaid, $5.30. 



JOHN MUIR'S 



Stickeen: The Story of a Dog 



A stirring story of a faithful dog, actual adventure and perilous escape in the glacier country. The story is 
told in picturesque and almost poetic prose. 60 cents net. Postpaid 67 cents. 



JEANNETTE MARKS'S 



Through Welsh Doorways 



Delightful stories of Welsh life by an author who knows the country and its people intimately, and who 
writes with humor, pathos and affection. What Barrie has done for Scotland Miss Marks has done for the 
by-ways of Wales. Illustrated in tint by Anna Whelan Belts. $1.10 net. Postage extra. 



ENOS A. MILLS'S 



Wild Life on the Rockies 



An interesting account of adventures with snowslides, wild beasts, and wild weather, the animal life of the 
Rockies and the pleasures of camping out. Illustrated. $1.75 net. Postage extra. 



MARGARET MORSE'S 



On the Road to Arden 



A charming romantic tale of a springtime excursion by two willful maids in a runabout. Their repeated 
encounters with an automobile and its impulsive occupants afford an opportunity for a double love story 
full of delightful situations. With sketches by II. M. Brett. $1.00 /ie<. Postage extra. 



FRANK W. LEWIS'S 



State Insurance 



A valuable handbook in which the desirability of state insurance, its effectiveness in other countries, and 
the peculiar problems connected with it for our own country, are set forth with great vigor and lucidity. 

$1.25 net. Postage extra. 



GEORGE R. NOYES'S (Editor) 



The Cambridge Dryden 



The most complete collection of Dryden's writings yet attempted in popular form. The book is well supplied 
with notes and has a chronological arrangement of contents. 

Cambridge Edition. With photogravure Portrait and Vignette. $3.00. Postpaid. 



BOSTON 



HOUGHTON MIFFLIN COMPANY 



NEW YORK 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



167 




WILLIAM J, LOCKE'S NEW NOVEL 

SEPTIMUS 



l£mo. Illustrated. ^1-50. 

" A more beloved vagabond than ' The Beloved Vagabond.' " — N. Y. Globe' 
"Witty, original, and gay as Sheridan." — Pall Mall Gazette. 
"Locke at his best.'' — Baltimore Sun. 

" A permanent a^idition to the lovable characters of fiction." — Outlook. 
" It appears to be Mr. Locke's province to let light into the dark corners of 
life and show us the bright side of people and things." — Boston Transcript. 

" ' Septimus ' is not a book for prudes to read, although it is in no sense 
immodest. It grows in strength and depth toward the end, until it offers one of the 
most absorbing propositions presented in modern fiction." — Washington Star. 

" One of those rare stories that attract us first of all in our lighter moods and 
then lay hold upon us with the force of a strong ideal." — Argonaut. 
William Lyon Phelps, Professor of English Literature at Yale University : " ' Septimus ' is to my mind the best 
book Mr. Locke has ever written, which means it is one of the most delightful novels published during the last ten 
years. . . . All the whimsical humor of his former stories, with a deep vein of purity and tenderness." 

LOST CABIN MINE A Stirring Tale of the West 

127)10. $1.50. 
" Apache Kid is of the type Bret Harte loved to draw." — Queen. 
"Full of movement and stirring.'" — Brooklyn Eagle. 

A DAUGHTER OF FRANCE 

By Constance Elizabeth Maud. 12mo. $1.50. 

" Interprets French character to American readers with more success than any recent work 
of fiction. The dash and sunny grace of the French character are inimitably brought out.'' 

SONGS FROM THE GARDEN OF KAMA 

By Laurence Hope. Illustrated from Photographs by Mrs. Eakdley Wilmot. 
4to. $S.OO net. Postage, 15 cents. 

" No one has so truly interpreted the Indian mind — no one, transcribing Indian thought into our literature, has 
retained so high and serious a level, and quite apart from the rarity of themes and setting, the verses remain true 
poems." — London Daily Chronicle. 

THE BOOK OF LIVING POETS 

By Walter Jerrold. ISmo. $2.50 net. Postage, 12 cents. 

The object of this collection is not only to indicate something of the number of living poets, but also to show 
them in their most characteristic work, and as a consequence, in a certain measure to illustrate at once the range of 
the poetical expression of the time, and something of the thought of the time as rendered in poetry. 

SALOME A Guide to Strauss' Opera 

16mo. Illustrated. $1.00 net. Postage, 6 cents. 

ASPECTS OF MODERN OPERA 

16mo. $1.25 net. Postage, 10 cents. 
Salome, Pelleas and Melisande, Boheme, etc. Ably discussed by Lawrence Oilman. 
"For constant opera-goers a timely transcript." — New York Sun. 

EDWARD MACDOWELL 

By Lawrence Oilman. Illustrated. 12mo. $1.50 net. Postage, 12 cents. 
" Every appreciator of MacDowell's music should possess himself of this study of the composer." 

— Washington Star. 

ANATOLE FRANCE 





COMPLETE LIMITED EDITION IN ENGLISH, 
$2.00 per volume. 
THE WELL OF ST. CLARE 
THE GARDEN OF EPICURUS 
THE CRIME OF SYLVESTRE BONNARD 



THE RED LILY 
MOTHER OF PEARL 
BALTHASAR 



JOHN LANE COMPANY 



THE INTERNATIONAL 
STUDIO 



NEW YORK 



168 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



A SELECTION OF SPRING PUBLICATIONS 

From the List of J. B. LIPPINCOTT COMPANY Philadelphia, Pa, 



Charles-Augustin 
Sainte-Beuve 

CThe fourth volume of the French Men of Letters Series. 
By George McLean Harper, Professor of English 
Literature in Princeton University, and author of 
" Masters of French Literature," Professor Harper believes 
that Sainte-Beuve is now more than ever acknowledged to 
be, with Taine and Benan, one of the intellectiial triumvi- 
rate of modern France, and that he is henceforth to be 
regarded not merely as the greatest French literary critic, 
but as one of the world's chief critics in the broad sense — 
a man who has thrown the light of reason upon all great 
questions of psychology, morality, religion, politics, and art. 
With a frontispiece portrait and a bibliography. 12mo. 
Cloth, paper label, 11.50 net; postpaid, 11.60. 



The Life of 
James McNeill Whistler 

CAn entirely new printing of this authorized biography 
by Elizabeth R. and Joseph Pennell. The Interna- 
tional Studio says: "Those, too, who know him only 
in his paintings, etchings, and lithographs, will learn, 
through the intimacy of Mr. and Mrs. Pennell's pages, 
better to understand the deep-souled religion of beauty that 
inspired all his work. The numerous illustrations, repro- 
ducing practically all his important pictures, are beyond 
praise. Whistler himself would have delighted in this book, 
and proclaimed it ' all beautiful, distinguished, and charm- 
ing, as it should be.' We can hear his joyous, vibrant laugh 
of final triumph." Two volumes. 166 illustrations in half- 
tone, photogravure, and line. Crown quarto. Half-cloth, 
110.00 net per set. 



Wild Flowers and 
Fruits 

CBy George L.Walton, M.D., 
author of "Why Worry?" 
A book of chartsandgroups 
which will facilitate identifica- 
tion of many flowers and fruits 
commonly found in the north- 
eastern section of the United 
States. The pen and ink illus- 
trations were made direct from 
fresh specimens by the author. 
Two color plates and 86 line 
drawings. 12mo. Cloth, $1.50 net. 



The Home Garden 

CBy Eben E. Rexford, author of " Four Seasons 
in the Garden." This book is intended for the 
use of those who have a little piece of land 
upon which they would like to grow vegetables and 
small fruits, but whose knowledge how to go to work 
in the right way, and what to attempt growing, is 
limited, because of lack of experience. It contains 
no theories. It aims to give simply and clearly such 
information as the writer has gathered from his own 
experience in gardening, by which he believes others 
can bring about equally satisfactory results. Eight 
full-page illustrations. 12mo. 198 pages. Cloth, 
ornamental, fl.25 net; postpaid, $1.35. 



Our Insect Friends 
and Enemies 

CBy John B. Smith, Sc.D., 
Professor of Entomology 
in Rutgers College. The 
importance of insects and their 
influence on human life is just 
coming to be appreciated, and 
this volume treats of the rela- 
tions of insects to man, to other 
animals, to each other, and to 
plants. Colored frontispiece and 
121 line cuts in the text. 12mo. 
Cloth, $1.50 net. 



Behind the Veil 
in Persia- 

CBy M. E. Hume-Griffith. With narratives of experi- 
ences by A. Hume-Griffith, M.D. In a residence of 
eight years in Persia and Turkish Arabia the author 
became intimate with a large circle of friends whose life is 
passed behind the veil, and a.s the wife of a medical mission- 
ary she has had unusual opportunities of winning their con- 
fidence and becoming acquainted with their thoughts. As 
a result her book gives an accountof that inner life of the 
East of which a traveller, however keen-sighted and intelli- 
gent, seldom gains more than a passing glimpse. 37 illus- 
trations and a map. 350 pages. Octavo. Cloth, with gilt, 
$3.50 net. 



A British Officer in 
the Balkans 

CBy Major Percy Henderson, late of the Indian Army. 
There lies in Eastern Europe one of the most charm- 
ing districts, as yet unspoiled by tips or exorbitant 
hotel charges, possessing all the variety of scenery of Nor- 
way, the coloring of Italy, with the added glamor of the 
Orient. Major Henderson has written an intensely inter- 
esting record of a lengthy tour through Dalmatia, Monte- 
negro, and Turkey in Austria, Magyarland, Bosnia, and 
Herzegovina. The author's account is not that of a hurried 
traveller, but is the result of careful and appreciative observ- 
ation. The photographs, taken by Mrs. Henderson, are 
unique and add greatly to the interest of the book. Fifty 
illustrations and a map. Octavo. Cloth, gilt top, $3.50 net. 



Love's 
Privilege 



CBy Stella M. During, author of 
"Disinherited." This novel re- 
cently won a thousand-dollar 
prize in a leading Chicago newspaper 
competition, and was pronounced as 
perhaps the most bafiiing mystery 
story of recent years. The plot is con- 
cerned with a murder which absolutely 
defies solution. Frontispiece in color 
by Frank H.Desch. 12mo. Cloth, with 
colored inset, $1.50. 

READY IN MAY 

The Woman in Question 

^ By John Reed Scott, author of " The Colonel of the Red 
^*» Huzzars," " The Princess Dehra," etc. 



Lanier 
of the Cavalry 

CBy General Charles King, who 
stands sponsor for many fine 
army stories, but it is douTjtful 
if he has ever penned a more stirring 
one than this, his latest romance. The 
plot is laid at a frontier fort where witty 
women and brave men are snowed in 
for months, which isolation is to some 
extent accountable for the remarkable 
happenings. Three full-page illustra- 
tions by Frank McKernan. 12mo. De- 
corated cloth, $1.25. 



Self Help for 
Nervous Women 

C Familiar talks on economy in 
nervous expenditure by John K. 
Mitchell, M.D. Here are plain 
and helpful talks about food and rest, 
air and exercise, self-control, discipline, 
the training of the nervous system, 
etc., intended for the nervous, for those 
who apprehend nervousness, and for 
those who have to do with nervous 
invalids. 12mo. 202 pages. Cloth, 
$1.00 net; postpaid, $1.08. 

READY IN APRIL 

The Winning Chance 

^ By Elizabeth Dejeans. Strikingly original in theme 
^^ and treatment — the big problem of the American girl. 



SEND FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED SPRING CATALOGUE 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



169 



Ellen Terry^s 



The Story of My Life 



A most charmingly individual biography — the informal reminiscences of one of the best-beloved 
women and most gracious personalities that the English-speaking stage has known. "Miss 
Terry had the fortune to come in contact with nearly everyone who counted in art and literature 
as well as in the theatre, and has something worth saying about all." Neixj York Sun. 

" Miss Terry has given us one of the most interesting books of reminiscences we are likely to 
see in our day." Chicago Record-Herald. 

Embellished ivith the greatest collection of theatrical photographs and reproductions of famous 
paintings ever published in one 'volume. Net, Sj JO (postage 2j cents). 



John La Farge^s 



The Higher Life in Art 



This notable resume of the work of Delacroix, Daubigny, Decamps, Corot, Rousseau, and 
Millet, by one who is recognized as the great art figure of the present day, will rank with the 
foremost contributions to art criticism. 

"Mr. La Farge is a rare master of the art of talking about art. Nothing could be less 
academic . . . from these lectures the reader may gain a really helpful artistic stimulus." A'^. Y. 



Tribune. 



With 64 plates of famous paintings . Net, $2.^0 {postage 2^ cents). 



A work which 
M US T be in every 
intelligent read- 
er's library. 

German Edition 
ready, complete in 
two volumes. 
Net, I7.60 
(carriage 
40 cts.) 



The whole work of 
three volumes, thus completed, is one' 
of the most inspiring and readable memoirs 
in American literature." Chicago Record-Herald. 

Reminiscences of 



'■''His career 
was an Iliad of 
adventure and 
an Odyssey of 
achievement." 
Felix Adler. 



CARL SCHURZ 



"Among contemporary memoirs, none are more 
inherenlly vital or of a larger importance histori- 
cally than those •{ the Araericah soldier and 
publicist, product of German revolution, whom we 
knew and respected as Carl Schurz. . . . He 
was one of our greatest and most courageous of 
good citizens." Philadelphia Public Ledger. 

"The Americanization of Schurz was a fortu- 
nate thing for this country. A man of his stripe 
and his courage was needed to tell unwholesome 
truths bluntly, and to hold an ideal of good citi- 
zenship that worked great good in life and that- 
will remain of permanent benefit." Cleveland 
Leader. 



"Teemmg with fine raptures and splendid loyal- 
ties, dramatic and moving throughout, the Remi- 
niscences are among the most readable as well as 

the most important published in recent years." 

Pittsburg Cazctie-Times, 

"To most of us this book reveals a new pha^e 
in his character in that it' is pervaded with a 
gentle humor, with a shrewd discrimination as to 
men's character and motives, and a power of 
direct and forcible narration which is rare in- 
deed. Egotism is strikingly absent from the 
work." Cleveland Plain Dealer. 



" Fewr autobiographies excel this in charm and interest. Force- 
ful, picturesque, frank, it allies literary grace and value v^^ith the 
all-inspiring story of a well-spent-life." Detroit Free 'Press. 



Cut off the 
coupon oppo- 
site and mail 
to Doubleday, 
Page & Co. 



Volume Three published separately 

Price of Volume Three, Net, $3.00 
(postage lie). The set. Three 
Volumes, Net. $9.00 
(carriage 70c.^. 



Dial-3-15-'09. 

DOUBLEDAY, PAGE & CO., 

133 East i6th Street, New York. 

Gentlemen : — Enclosed find $ 

for which send me, carriage paid, volumes 

of the Reminiscences of Carl 

Schurz. 

Name ^ _ _ 



Address, 



170 THE DIAL [March 16, 
t \ 

Little, Brown & Co.'s Spring Books 



RED HORSE HILL By sidney McCall 

An intensely dramatic American novel, by the author of "Truth Dexter," With a 
background of Southern mill life. Illustrated. $1.50. 

THE LITTLE GODS By Rowland thomas 

A book of adventure and military life in the Philippines, by the author of " Fagan," the 
famous Collier $5000. prize story. Illustrated. $1.50. 

THE MISSIONER By e. phillips oppenheim 

Third printing of the most popular novel Mr. Oppenheim has yet written. 

Illustrated. $1.50. 

IN A MYSTERIOUS WAY By anne warner 

A story of love and sacrifice relieved by the wit and humor of the most delightful 
character the versatile author of " Aunt Mary," " Susan Clegg," etc., has ever created. 

Illustrated. $1.50. 

THE STRAIN OF WHITE By ada woodruff anderson 

A powerful story of the Puget Sound country, by the author of "The Heart of the 
Red Firs." Illustrated. $1.50. 

A ROYAL WARD By percy brebner 

A swiftly moving tale of love and adventure, with a captivating heroine, by the author 
of " Princess Maritza." Illustrated. $1.50. 

THE BRIDGE BUILDERS By anna chapin ray 

A strong love story whose development is closely allied with the collapse of the famous 
Quebec bridge. $1.50. 

THE WHIPS OF TIME By Arabella kenealy 

A new novel of great interest with a most unusual theme. Illustrated. $1.50. 

BUT STILL A MAN By margaret l. knapp 

A strong and original American novel dealing with a young man's first parish. $1.50. 

MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS 
OUR BENNY By mary e. waller 

A narrative poem of national importance by the author of "The Wood Carver of 
'Lympus." ISmo. $1.00 net. 

FRAGMENTS THAT REMAIN By Captain a. t. mahan 

A book of a broadly religious character by the well-known authority on sea power. 

COOKING FOR TWO By janet Mackenzie hill 

A handbook for young housekeepers, containing recipes and menus for two people. 
Profusely illustrated. Cloth. $1.50 net. 

THE PANAMA CANAL By vaughan cornish 

A compact, comprehensive and timely account of this gfreat work by a well-known 
English geographer. With map and 64 illustrations. Cloth. $1.50 net. 



Little, Brown & Co. Publishers Boston 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



171 



Leading Spring Fiction 



SIMEON TETLOW^S SHADOW 



February 



By JENNETTE LEE, Author of "Uncle William," etc. 

This is the story of a Man and a Railroad — the stirand thrillof lifeina great corporation run through 
it — and a vivid picture of the real things of modern business life — with glimpses of a beautiful home 
life in a little village, and days of healing of mind and body out in the silence of the woods. 
The human quality of the book places it quite beyond any ordinary standard. 

Frontispiece by Ashe. $1.^0 



By the Author of 



AH the magic of the wild, free life of 
the open is caught and held in these 
pages — the story, from his cubhood to 
his splendid prime, of that aristocrat of 
foxes, Domino Reynard ; his happy, ad- 
venturous, sometimes tragic life among 
the Goldur Hills ; the romance of his 
life-union with Snowyruff. 




Biography of a Grizzly 



March 



The telling is Mr. Seton's ripest and 
best ; and the altogether delightful and 
fascinating narrative is made still more 
delightful and fascinating by over one 
hundred of the author's characteristic 
illustrations. Cover design, title-page, 
and general make-up by Grace Gallatin 
Seton. $1 JO 



OLD LADY NUMBER 31 

By LOUISE FORSSLUND 

This is the. homely, humorous, pathetic kind of a tale that touches the heart and keeps the 
reader's lips smiling and his eyes wet. It is the story of an old husband and wife who come to 
lace a divided path — the old folks' home for one, the poorhouse for the other. 

How the "old ladies " adopt Abe; how, as the days go by, the situation develops both humor 
and pathos; how at last the old couple's poverty is changed to modest wealth, yet the " home " 
claims them — these things are delightfully told. $r oo 

THE WILES OF SEXTON MAGINNIS 

By MAURICE FRANCIS EGAN 

Just the cleverest delineation of Celtic character, the jolliest book of Irish-American life and ad- 
venture in American literature. That delicious chap Maginnis is the hero, with his adoring 
wife -Mary Ann, their child'-en, and his mother-in-law, Herself, chief of a wide and always de- 
lightful dramatis persona. 

There is a smile on every page and a laugh in each chapter. Illustrations by Keller. $i.jo 



The New Novel by the Author of ** Mrs. Wlggs of the Cabbage Patch ' 



MR. OPP 



April 



By ALICE BEGAN RICE 

You '11 begin by laughing at Mr. Opp — you '11 grow to admire and love him. He does and says some 
ridiculous things; but he says many things worth weighing; and his days are one uncomplaining 
surrender of self and self's natural hopes and ambitions to the comforting and making happy of those 
who have need. Nothing Mrs. Rice has done approaches the whimsical humor, pathos, and genuine 
heart interest of this story; Mr. Opp is a creation richly worthy of Dickens, and is certain to live as one 
of the most delicious and appealing characters in American fiction. Pictures by Guipon. $/.oo 



The Century Co., Union Square, New York 



172 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



Books Here and Coming 

ALREADY PUBLISHED 

THE PACIFIC SERIES 



Edwin J. Houston, Ph.D. (Princeton) 
Illustrated. Price per copy $1.25. 
Volume 1. 

FIVE MONTHS ON A DERELICT 

Volume 2. 

WRECKED ON A CORAL ISLAND 

Volume 3. 

IN CAPTIVITY IN THE PACIFIC 
CHRISTIAN HEROINE SERIES 

FOR GIRLS 

Price, 3 vols., $1.00 ; postagre 86 cents extra. 

GRACE TRUMAN 

THEODOSIA ERNEST (Two Volumes) 

HEART THOUGHTS Mrs. H. B. Folk 

Price 75 cents net. 



FORTHCOMING 

THE CHRISTIAN STATE 

Samuel Zane Batten 
Price $1.50 net; postagre 15 cents extra. 

OUT OF THE DEPTHS 

Professor George R. Varney 

RIDGEWAY'S RELIGION 

W. H. RiDGEWAY 

THE CHILDREN OF MISSION 

LANDS W. C. Griggs, M.D. 

AT SCHOOL IN THE CANNIBAL 
ISLANDS 

Volume IV., The Pacific Series. 

Edwin J. Houston, Ph.D. (Princeton) 
Price $1.25. 



ORDER FROM THE NEAREST HOUSE 

PHILADELPHIA: 

GRIFFITH & ROWLAND PRESS 

BOSTON NEW YORK CHICAGO ST. LOUIS ATLANTA DALLAS 



Some Book Bargains 



MICBOCOSM OF LONDON ; or, London in SCiniatare. 
By Henry Ackermann. With 104 beautiful full-page illustra- 
tions in colours, the Architecture by A. C. Pugin, and the 
Manners and Customs by Thomas Rowlandson and William 
Henry Pine. In three volumes, quarto. London : Methuen 
&Co. Reducedfrom 122. to $12.50. 
The Original Edition of this book is novr rare and costly, and 

is one of the finest and most popular of old colored books, and 

an invaluable description of London a century ago. 

THE NATIONAL SPOBTS OF GBEAT BBITAIN. 
By Henry Aiken. With 50 full-page illustrations, beautifully 
coloured after Nature, 18 x 13 inches. Each illustration is 
accompanied by full and descriptive letterpress in English 
and French. A handsome volume, large folio, buckram back, 
cloth sides. A choice facsimile of the very rare and costly 
original edition of 1821. London: Methuen & Co. Reduced 
from $37. to $15.00. 

SOCIAL CABICATITBE IN THE EIGHTEENTH 
CENTTJBY. By '" George Paston " (Miss E. M. Symonds), 
Author of " Little Memoirs of the 18th Century, &c. A 
Comprehensive Survey of the Life and Pastimes of the English 
People during the Eighteenth Century, as portrayed in the 
Caricatures by Hogarth, Rowlandson, Gillray, and others. 
Superbly illustrated by a colored frontispiece and over 200 
plates, beautifully reproduced from the original line en- 
gravings, etchings, mezzotints, stipple, &c., with letterpress 
explaining all the points of the drawings. Large quarto, 
boards, canvas back, gilt top. London: Methuen & Co. 
Reduced from $18.50 to $7.50. 



The Fourth Folio of Shakespeare. Faithfully 

Repmduced in Collotype Facsimile from the 

Edition of 1685, in a limited issue. 

MB. WILLIAM SHAKESPEABE'S COMEDIES, HIS- 
TOBIBS AND TBAGEDIES. Published according 
to the true Original Copies. The Fourth Edition, with 
all the introductory matter, epitaphs, verses, etc., and a fine 
impression of the portrait by Droeshout. Folio, boards, linen 
back. [London : Printed for H. Herringham, E. Brewster, and 
R. Bentley, at the Anchor in the New Exchange, etc., 1685.] 
London: Methuen & Co. Reduced from $30. to $1 5.00. 



THE GODS OF THE EGYPTIANS; or. Studies in 
Egyptian Mythology. By E. A. Wallis Budge, Litt.D. 
(Keeper of the Egyptian and Assyrian Antiquities in the 
British Museum). A complete history of the worship of 
spirits, demons, and gods in Egypt, from the earliest period to 
the introduction of Christianity. Magnificently illustrated 
by 98 colored plates and 131 illustrations in the text. Two 
volumes, large octavo. London: Methuen & Co. Reduced 
from $22. to $10.00. 

BECTJYELL OF THE HISTOBYES OF TBOYE. By 
Raoul Lefevre, translated and printed by William Caxton 
(cir. A.D. 1474), and now edited by H. Oskar Sommer, Ph.D. 
A faithful reproduction of the original words, from a unique 
perfect copy of the original, with an historical and critical 
introduction, and including a complete Glossary and Index. 
Two volumes, small quarto. London : David Nutt. Reduced 
from $12.50 to $6.50. 
Two hundred and fifty copies of this Edition were privately 

printed for Subscribers, of which only a few remain for sale. 

DOME (THE): A Quarterly. Containing Examples of all 
the Arts: Architecture, Literature, Drawings, Paintings, 
Engravings, and Music. With contributions by Laurence 
Housman, W. B. Yeats, Arthur Symons, Fiona Macleod, 
Stephen Phillips, Edward Elgar, Liza Lehmann, and others, 
with facsimiles of early woodcuts, and illustrations by 
modem artists, with a number of songs. Complete as pub- 
lished, Ist Series, 5 parts, and 2d Series, 7 vols. Twelve 
volumes, small quarto. London : At the Sign of the Unicorn. 
Reduced from $20. to $7.50. 



Sent prepaid on receipt of price. 

BROWNE'S BOOKSTORE 

FINE ARTS BUILDING, CHICAGO 



1909] THE DIAL 173 



NEW BOOKS FROM THE BAKER & TAYLOR CO, 
Union Square, 33 East 17th Street, New York 

OPEN HOUSE. JULIET WILBOR TOMPKINS. Frontispiece. $1.50. 

The new book by the author of " Dr. Ellen " is repeating the success of that delightful story. Second edition on 
the press. 

BANZAI! PARABELLUM. Illustrated. $1.50. 

The imaginative war between Japan and America is so graphically described as to create a wide and increasing 
interest. This book has sold over a quarter of a million copies in Germany. 

THE EXPLORER. WILLIAM somerset MAUGHAM. illustrated. $1.50. 

This story (recalling Mason's " Four Feathers ") of a brave man who silently bears the consequences of another's 
crime, is meeting with much favor. It is now in its second edition. 

THE REORGANIZATION OF OUR COLLEGES, clarence f.birdseye. Net,$i.7s; 

postage 20 cents. 
An examination into the condition of the administrative departments of our colleges, exposing evils and suggesting 
remedies, by the author of " Individual Training in our Colleges." 

A CHILD'S GUIDE TO AMERICAN HISTORY, henry w. elson. 15 illustrations. 

Net, I1.25. 
The third issue in this successful series, presenting the essentials of our national annals in an attractive form, by 
the author of " History of the United States." 

MEDIEVAL ARCHITECTURE. Arthur KINGSLEY porter. Net, $15.00; carriage extra. 
A splendid comprehensive work in two handsome volumes of over looo pages, with 284 illustrations, and an intro- 
duction to the buildings themselves as well as to the vast literature which has grown up around them. Special 
circular on application. 

LIFE OF LINCOLN, henry C. WHITNEY. Edited by Marion Mills Miller. 2 vols. 750 pages. 
Boxed. Two portraits. Net, $2.50; expressage extra. 
' ' This is easily among the most important lives of Lincoln , despite its comparative brevity ." — Ne-xvark E'veningNeivs. 
" The book is one which no student of Lincoln can do without. It is, on the whole, a more useful life than 
Herndon's." — The Providence Journal. 

FOR THOSE WHO READ BOOKS 

In the style of a supplement the literary section of The Chicago Evening Post will hereafter be presented 
on Friday of each week. 

From the reader's standpoint, from the editorial standpoint, and from the book publisher's, the advantages 
of the weekly supplement are not far to seek. To keep in touch with the new publications a weekly survey is 
ideal. To glance at reviews from day to day is loose ; from month to month is congesting. In a week's per- 
spective one can comfortably take in literary performance; see it steadily and see it whole. 

Besides the greater thoroughness that is possible in a special supplement there are advantages both to reader 
and to editor in arrangement, in proportion, and in authority. 

Its inherent nature as a supplement will render the Friday Literary Review convenient and compact. All 
the criticisms, advance information about books, personal news of authors, and general literary chronicle that have 
been appearing in the body of the newspaper throughout the week, but notably on Saturdays, will now be gro 
and unified in the special supplement. A particular attention will also be possible to the notice and discussion l. 
the leading magazine articles, which to all intents and purposes are literature. And the facilities of The Evening 
Post for the proper reproduction of half-tones will be availed of fully. 

Besides the established critical features that have distinguished the literary columns of The Evening Post 
there will appear in the supplement several additions of importance. A special letter from New York will be 
included each week, containing exclusive literary information, and there will be a weekly London letter by a well- 
known author. 

In its position as the sole literary supplement issue in connection with a daily newspaper outside of New York, 
the Friday Literary Review will lay claim to wide attention. It will bid to be indispensable to the general reader 
who wishes to keep abreast of current English and American literature. Because of its form it can be laid aside 
by the reader who is hurried at the moment he scans his newspaper; and its aim will be to justify its retention in 
the case of the person who wants the books of the day reviewed comprehensively, and judiciously selected. 

To make book reviews interesting. This will be the first editorial aspiration. The slough of the advertisement 
seeker on one hand, and of the academic bore on the other, are always there to engulf the writers of book reviews. 
He can escape these quagmires only by possessing sincerity and authority. Since the practical value of one's sin- 
cerity depends upon authority, and since the union of convictions and sympathies that make a good critic is rare, 
it is not cynical to assert that many book views are incompetent and many insincere. It is the editor's ambition to 
maintain a standard against all mercenary and complacent considerations which will, in a manner by no means 
grim, secure, a genuine service to the book-reading public, and a service to good literature . 



174 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 1909. 



The Macmillan Company's Announcements 



AN IMPORTANT WORK TO BE COMPLETED THIS MONTH 

Bailey's Cyclopedia of American Agriculture 

Edited by L. H. Bailey, Director of the College of Agriculture, Coruell University, and 
Chairman of the Commission on Country Life whose report has recently been forwarded to 
Congress, with the assistance of over three hundred expert contributors. 
In four Ifto volumes, with 100 full-page plates, and about 2000 other illustrations. Cloth, $20. net. 

Special Features of the Work are:' 

Every article, or cut, is new, prepared especially It is comprehensive, tells what can be grown anywhere — 

from the Northwestern wheat fields to the tropical islands 
— and how to do it. 

It is broad, giving articles needed by men of different 
points of view. It tells how a farm can be organized on a 
large scale, or run to the best advantage on a small one, or 
supplies helpful advice to the woman who wishes to run 
the farm housekeeping on lines as perfect as possible. 



for this work. 

Each article is signed by the man who knows 

most about that special branch of the farming 

industry to-day. 

It is complete, covering every process from the 

selection of the farm itself to the final marketing 

of the crop. 



AlmoBt any farmer, by its use, can save ten times its cost ; the younger genf ration will find it tremendously educative. 



OTHER NEW BOOKS IN PRESS 



ON POLITICS, HISTORY, ETC. 
By William B. Munro Harvard University 

The Government of European 

Cities Cloth, 8vo. $2.25. Subject to chanye. 

By the Hon. Charles S. Lobingier 

( U. S. Judge in the Philippine Islands) 

The People's Law 

Cloth, 8vo. Expected in April. 

By Theodore T. Jervey msToHcai society 
Robert Y. Hayne and his Times 

Supplies an unfilled gap in United States history. 
Cloth, Svo. Probably $,J.0O net. 

By E. S. Meany University of Washington 

History of the State of Washington 

Cloth, 12mo. Heady shortly. 
By Edward Channing Harvard University 

and Marion F. Lansing 
The Story of the Great Lakes 

Illustrated, cloth. $1.50. 

By Prof. Allan Marquand ^' »"'^«'''« 



Greek Architecture 



U7iiversity 



In the series of Handbooks of Art and Archseolosry. 
Cloth, illustrated. Probably $2.25 net. 

By Prof. George W. Botsford ^^tTS 
The Roman Assemblies 

Cloth, Svo. Ready shortly. 



MISCELLANEOUS 



By George R. Carpenter Columbia 



Walt Whitman 



University 



In the new American Extension of the English Men 
of Letters. Cloth, 12mo. 75 cents net. 

By Professor Gummere ^'J^/Jf' 
The Oldest English Epic 

Cloth, 12mo. $1.50 net. Subject to chanije. 
By Prof. W. L. Cross Yale University 

The Life and Times of Laurence 

oterne Cloth.Hltistrated. Jn press. 

By President H. C. King Oherlin College 

The Laws of Friendship Human 

and Divine Cloth.l2mo. Probably $1.00 net. 

By the Rt. Rev. Charles D. Williams 
A Valid Christianity for To-day 

Cloth, 127)10. Probably $1.50 7iet. 

By Professor Robert M. Wenley ^]^Zhf 
Modem Thought and the Crisis in 

Belief Cloth,12mo. Probably $1.50 net. 

By Prof. Francis G. Peabody university 

Author of " Jesus Christ and the Social Question." 

The Approach to the Social 

Question Cloth,12mo. Probably $1.50 net. 

By Prof. J. E. Miller Milwaukee, Wisconsin. 

The Psychology of Thinking 

Cloth, 12mo. Expected shortly. 

By Kate V. St. Maur 

Author of "A Self-Supporting Home." 

The Earth's Bounty probabiy $1.75 net. 



PUBLISHED 
BY 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 



64-66 Fifth Ave., 
NEW YORK 



THE DIAL 

a &emi 'Montfjii^ Journal of l^ttmarg Crittctam, ©igraasion, anti Infottnattan, 



THE DIAL (founded in 1880} is published on the 1st and 16th oj 
each month. Terms op Subsckiption, H2. a year in advance, postage 
prepaid in the United States, and Mexico; Foreign and Canadian 
postage 60 cents per year extra. BEaoTTAMCES should be by cheek, or 
by express or postal order, payable to THE DIAL COMPANY. 
Unless otherwise ordered, subscriptions will begin with the current 
number. When no direct request to discontinue at expiration of sub- 
scription is received, it is assumed that a continuance of the subscription 
is desired. ADVEBTisiNa Rates furnished on application. All com- 
munications should be addressed to 

THE DIAL, Fine Arts Building, Chicago. 

Kntered aa Second-Class Matter October 8, 1892, at the Post Office 
at Chicago, Illinois, under Act of Uarch 3, 1879. 

No. 546. MARCH 16, 1909. Vol. XLVI. 

Contents. 

PAGE 

SPEECH AND CONCORD 175 

POETRY, TIME, AND EDWARD FITZGERALD. 

Warren Barton Blake 177 

CASUAL COMMENT 180 

The function of the bookstore. — A sure road to 
the mad-house. — The living reality of the dead 
past. — The secret enthusiasms of Edward Fitz- 
Gerald. — The late Carroll D. Wright. — President 
Angell's resignation. — A defence of the signed 
review. — The pernicious "manufacturing clause'' 
in our copyright laws. — The cost of circulating a 
library book. — The public library as a bureau of 
information. — Of making many books. — Chaucer 
and the " New Thought." 

COMMUNICATION. 183 

The Encouragement of Literature in Libraries. 
Asa Don Dickinson. 

THE MOUNTAINS OF THE MOON. H. E. Coblentz 184 

CHAUCER AND HIS TIMES. Clark S. Northup 185 

THE CAMPAIGN OF SANTIAGO DE CUBA. 

James A. Le Roy 186 

THE NEWEST FAUST. Ellen C. Hinsdale . . .188 

RECORDS OF AN INSPIRING LIFE. T. D. A. 

Cockerell 189 

BRIEFS ON NEW BOOKS 190 

Our greatest musical genius. — A French translator 
of English classics. — A cry from Macedonia. — A 
hunter of extinct animals. — Ibsen and his work. — 
The belated biography of a great preacher, — 
Cradle-tales of Hinduism. — Student days at the 
University of Virginia. 

BRIEFER MENTION 193 

NOTES 194 

ANNOUNCEMENTS OF SPRING BOOKS . . .195 
A classified list of books to be issued by American 
publishers during the Spring and Summer of 1909. 

LIST OF NEW BOOKS 202 



SPEECH AND CONCORD. 



The American Association for International 
Conciliation is an organization that is doing 
much quiet and effective work for the promotion 
of good feeling among the nations of the earth. 
Organized about two years ago, with pro patria 
per orhis concordiam for a motto, and directed 
by a council of some fifty men who stand high 
in the esteem of their feUow-countrymen, it 
makes the following declaration of its objects : 

"To record, preserve, and disseminate the history 
of organized efforts for promoting international peace 
and relations of comity and good fellowship between 
nations, to print and circulate documents, and otherwise 
to aid individual citizens, the newspaper press, and 
organizations of various kinds to obtain accurate infor- 
mation and just views upon the subjects, and to pro- 
mote in all practicable ways mutual understanding and 
good feeling between the American people and those of 
other nations." 

This is a worthy programme, and it takes the 
practical form of a series of pamphlets, now 
numbering fifteen, which are widely circidated, 
and cannot fail to be helpful in directing public 
opinion along the ways of sanity and restraint. 
These publications are modest in appearance, 
but weighty in matter. Among their authors 
are Mr. Elihu Eoot, Mr. David Jayne Hill, 
Baron d'Estournelles de Constant, Professor 
George Trumbull Ladd, and Professor Barrett 
Wendell. They deal with such subjects as the 
Hague Conferences, the principles of interna- 
tional law, and the relations of this country 
with Canada, Spanish America, Europe, and 
the Far East. The latest of the issues is a 
paper by Mr. J. H. DeForest on "American 
Ignorance of Oriental Languages," which is 
our present text. 

Tout comprendre., c'est tout par donner, runs 
the old saying, and the experience of the cen- 
turies bears witness to its truth. The historian 
knows how many international disputes, to say 
nothing of actual armed conflicts, hav(j been 
based upon misunderstandings rather than upon 
irreconcilable antagonisms. Our own great civil 
conflict was the result of the failure of the two 
sections to understand each other, and might 
have been averted by a little more of the oil of 
sweet reasonableness which Lincoln sought to 
pour upon the troubled waters. We now see 
clearly enough that its ends might have been 



176 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



gained at a fraction of the sacrifice which the 
actual conflict entailed, and the victorious North 
is now coming to realize that the conquered 
South acted in the sincerity of its conviction, 
and was informed by its own exalted ideals of 
conduct. We no longer think it a desecration 
to speak of Lee and Lincoln in the same breath, 
and we are proud to point to both as examples 
of the excellence which we hope is still potential 
in American character. 

That war was fratricidal in the narrower 
sense, as were also our earlier wars with the 
mother country. If strife can so easily arise 
between peoples who speak the same tongue, 
how much greater is the danger when the bar- 
rier of language stands between two nations 
brought into rivalry by a common ambition, or 
set at odds by some passionate grievance. And 
when, as in the case of our relations with the 
peoples of the orient, that barrier is so high as 
to be unsurmountable by more than a few, how 
vitally important it becomes that the few, at 
least, should scale it, and bring report of what 
lies on the further side. This is the plea urged 
by Mr. DeForest, who recalls to us the words 
of the Premier of the Shogunate, " Nothing is 
worse than a barrier to the communication of 
thought," when confronted with the necessity of 
making some kind of a treaty with Commodore 
Perry. Jn these days of reckless scare-mon- 
gering, when yellow newspapers and hot-headed 
politicians seem capable of any sort of inter- 
national indecency, the Japanese statesman's 
words are driven home to us with special force. 

If to understand all is to forgive all, it is also 
true that in many cases perfect comprehension 
will make it clear that there is nothing to for- 
give, for the simple reason that there is no 
offence to be dealt with. Our writer gives us an 
instructive illustration of such a case. About a 
year ago, an American newspaper correspondent 
in Hawaii attended a gathering of Japanese 
upon one of their national holidays, and listened 
to the reading of an Imperial Rescript. He 
knew just enough of the language to get one 
sentence : " In case of emergency give yourself 
courageously to the State." At once he sniffed 
treasons and stratagems, and cabled to his office 
that the Japanese in Hawaii had just received 
orders from the Emperor to be ready for any 
emergency, which of course meant that they 
were ordered to get ready for an attack on the 
United States ! As a matter of fact, tlie reading 
of this rescript was a bit of routine common to 
aU such gatherings, was nothing more than a 
homily upon political ethics, and had precisely 



the significance that a reading of Washington's 
Farewell would have for an American audience. 
Yet such sparks as this are sometimes fanned 
into flame by ignorant patriotic zealots, and be- 
come a serious menace to comity among nations. 

The new phase of American relations with 
the Far East, which began with our subjugation 
of the Filipinos a decade ago, and has since been 
accentuated by our participation in the Boxer 
rebellion and our friction with Japan on the sub- 
ject of Pacific coast immigration, brings with it 
a responsibility which we must recognize if our 
oriental policies are not to be marked by blun- 
dering and a play at cross-purposes. It becomes 
imperative that we should so familiarize our- 
selves with oriental modes of thought as to 
reduce to a vanishing point the danger of misun- 
derstanding that springs from sheer ignorance. 
In other words, since thought and speech are 
one, we must learn the languages of the oriental 
peoples with whom we are sure to be brought 
into closer and closer contact. This does not 
mean that we should set our schoolchildren to 
studying Japanese and Chinese, but it does 
mean that we should have students of those 
languages in sufficient numbers to keep us in 
intelligent touch with our transpacific neighbors. 
Our government should always have at its 
service a body of skilled interpreters, and our 
universities should take measures to produce 
oriental scholars in numbers sufficient to supply 
the needs of the press and to shape public opin- 
ion in the mould of accuracy. What we have 
thus far done in this direction is pitif uUy little, 
and our linguistic helplessness is in striking 
contrast with the efficiency which the English 
have had the good sense to acquire for the pur- 
pose of dealing with their oriental difficulties. 
The number of English diplomatists and ciyil 
servants who know the languages of the peoples 
with whom they have to deal sets us an example 
which we would be wise to follow, and the 
English wealth of private oriental scholarship 
marks out a plain course for our institutions of 
the higher learning. 

Our oriental relations are but one aspect of a 
problem that is world-wide. Mr. Asquith said 
at the London Peace Congress of last summer : 
" The main thing is that nations should get to 
know and understand one another." England 
and the United States now know one another so 
well that a future war between them is almost 
unthinkable ; our common speech and our com- 
mon inheritance of historical glory put that dis- 
aster fairly beyond the compassing of the most 
sinister alliance of politicians and journalists. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



177 



But wars between peoples that do not know each 
other's languages are still melancholy possibil- 
ities. Our own unfortunate war with Spain 
might easily have been averted by a little more 
of mutual sympathy and understanding. The 
platform, the press, and the pulpit, all preju- 
diced because uninformed, brought it upon us, 
and upon the noble people whose arms we 
might overcome, but whose honor we could not 
stain. The Franco-Prussian war was a cause 
of keen distress to all the clear spirits of both 
nations concerned, but the comity of intelligence 
between Germans and Frenchmen was not close 
enough, forty years ago, to spare them the clash. 
In our own time, it is safe to say, a far more 
serious grievance would be required to occasion 
such a conflict. And every year that is added to 
the tale of this twentieth century is making more 
remote the possibility of war between civilized 
peoples. Hague conferences, and international 
scientific organizations, and foreign travel, and 
ententes corcliales, and the development of 
humanistic studies, and the invasion of litera- 
ture by the cosmopolitan spirit, and many other 
agencies of mutual good-wiU, are steadily at 
work, interpenetrating the very warp and woof 
of the world's civilization, making the antics of 
the alarmist, and the rhetoric of the advocate 
of huge armaments, aU the time more and more 
ridiculous. Peace, arbitration, disarmament, 
world-federation, and other terms of like im- 
port, are increasingly upon the lips of men ; 
they are ceasing to be merely academic phrases, 
and are coming into use as the watchwords of 
practical men, enlisted for the holy war of the 
future, the war upon warfare itself. And that 
war will find its most efficient private recruits 
in the men who learn other languages than their 
own, and thus come to realize that men of alien 
speech are, after all, their fellow-sharers in a 
common humanity. 



POETRY, TIME, AND EDWARD 
FIT ZGERA LD. 

I. 
In an idle moment, a philosopher might do worse 
than examine the poets in their attitude toward 
Time. I say, " in an idle moment," for if the task 
were taken up in working hours, it would be bound 
to result in something forbiddingly German, anno- 
tated in that heavy-handed manner which strikes 
terror to humble intelligences. Amiel is mildly 
metaphysical on the subject. " Twenty-five years ! 
It seems to me a dream as far as I am concerned. 
How strange a thing to have lived, and to feel 
myself so far from a past which is yet so present 



to me ! One does not know whether one is sleeping 
or waking. Time is but the space between our 
memories ; as soon as we cease to perceive this 
space, time has disappeared. . . . Life is the dream 
of a shadow." Thus Amiel, in his " Journal." We 
have all of us felt the tyranny of time, at least, — 
that thing, or thought, which is intangible (we know 
it to be intangible), and which all the same persists 
in getting between us and our highest satisfactions. 
The poets have ever made a little specialty of time- 
pieces. We know them — or some of them — well 
enough to do without quotation, or even so much as 
reading the bills by title. There is one line among 
them which all of us once memoi'ized: it is about 
letting the dead past bury its dead. 

That text might well be the starting-point either 
of the loftiest sermon or of the most shameless 
appeal to our proclivities for pleasure. Besides, in 
letting the dead past bury its dead, one may have 
the present in mind, or the future, or both. Ordi- 
narily, however, both are too much. Musette, 
in Murger's " Vie de Boheme," remarks : " To- 
morrow's a fatuity of the calendar ; a daily pretext 
that men have invented to get out of doing their 
business to-day. To-morrow may be an earthquake. 
To-day, God bless her, is terra firma." Musette 
wins our gratitude by using no Greek roots to elu- 
cidate her little philosophy of life. What is more, 
she never had the chance to read Hazlitt's essay 
" Of the Past and the Future " before having her 
say. " I conceive," wrote Hazlitt, " that the past is 
as real and substantial a part of our being, that it is 
as much a bona fide, undeniable consideration in the 
estimate of human life, as the future can possibly 
be. . . . Nay, the one is even more imaginary, a 
more fantastic creature of the brain than the other, 
and the interest we take in it more shadowy and 
gratuitous ; for the future, on which we lay so much 
stress, may never come to pass at all." 

And now it is high time to see whether these 
paragraphs have any connection with the title set at 
the head of our column, and what reference they may 
possibly bear to the name of Edward FitzGerald, 
whose centenary occurs this year and month. 

II. 

First of all, FitzGerald was one of those to whom 
the past — his own past and that of the race — 
always appealed as the chief poetic inspiration. 
This is one of the marks of the dreamer ; a man 
of stronger will is either more purely Epicurean 
(crowning the present moment), or looks more 
boldly to the future. If the verses had only been 
better, we could readily imagine FitzGerald, in one 
of his delightful letters — which were never too 
" literary " to carry something of the human, friendly 
quality that endeared them to Carlyle — citing 
Letitia Elizabeth Landon's " Intimations of Previous 
Existence " : 

" Remembrance makes the poet : 't is the past 
Lingering within him, with a keener sense 
Than is upon the thoughts of common men." 



178 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



Certainly there is evidence enough of FitzGerald's 
feeling in these matters. What wonder that he 
came upon Omar with a sense of ownarship, as it 
were ! The world was old to the one as to the 
other, — " sentient," as Aldrich has written, "with 
the dust of dead generations." It is a conceit grown 
familiar, the potter figure to which one of Fitz- 
Gerald's Quatrains gives ultimate English form : 
'' For I remember stopping by the way 

To watch a Potter thumping' his wet Clay : 
And with its all-obliterated Tongue 

It murmur'd, ' Gently, Brother, gently, pray ! ' " 

The East it is that has most deeply felt the great 
age of our race, and those mysterious bonds of time 
and birth and re-birth that tie us down to destiny. 
One may read the lesson in such a tale of Lafcadio 
Hearn's as " The Mountain of Skulls," which is far 
more than a " fantasy-piece." But, apart from the 
conviction that the world is very old, there is the 
sensibility of the poet to the past which is immedi- 
ately his own, the past of his present existence. 
This, too, is the stuff of poetry. That FitzGerald 
was not blind to it is nowise strange ; it is remark- 
able only that he should have felt it all so young. 
Valetudinary verse came to his pen-point when more 
normally he should have been phrasing with exulta- 
tion the joy of living. 

" One Moment in Annihilation's Waste, 
One Moment, of the Well of Life to taste — 

The Stars are setting and the Caravan 
Stai-ts for the Dawn of Nothing — Oh, make haste ! " 

So sang old Omar, — or so FitzGerald, himself in 
middle life (it is to-day just fifty years since the 
first edition of the Quatrains), made Omar sing. 
But what of the youth who regrets the death of the 
year in its very spring-time? It was almost as 
school-boy that FitzGerald wrote his "Old Beau," 
with a ring to it that is Thackerayan, — Thackeray 
was of his circle, too. Perhaps it is hardly worth 
quoting ; certainly a line or two is enough, — as the 
line wherein FitzGerald's Beau looks the young 
ladies over and ungallantly sighs, 

" You 're nothing to your mothers ! " 
or those that sum the whole piece up : 
"Out on the greybeard Time, Tom, 

He makes the best turned leg grow thinner ; 
He spares nor sex nor clime, Tom, 

Nor MS — the old relentless sinner ! " 
With this rather unfamiliar ballad of the " Old 
Beau," dug out of the "Keepsake of 1834" by an 
industrious two-volume biographer, one would like 
to trill the ringing stanzas of the " Old Song " with 
which the young FitzGerald " hoaxed " the " Athe- 
naeum." It is a beautiful lyric, — " exquisite poe- 
try " which Lamb envied its author as he envied 
Montgomery his " Last Man," because he felt he 
" could have done something like them." We 
wonder less at the "Meadows in Spring" (that is 
the alternate title) for its wistful beauty, than for its 
being written by the boy of twenty-two who so lightly 
conveyed in the stanzas his sentiment of half-tearful, 
half-smiling retrospection. Fancyj^a young Menan- 



der, an Anacreon blanc-becl And fancy FitzGerald's 
composing the " Meadows in Spring " so many years 
before he read and Englished Calderon's lines, — 
" Well, each his way and humour ; some to lie 
Like Nature's sickly children in her lap. 
While all the stronger brethren are at play," — 

before he knew old Jiimf, or felt Omar's spell, — 
passing it on to us I 

III. 
" In all the actions that a Man performs, some 
part of his Life passeth," wrote Owen Felltham. 
" Nay, though we do nothing. Time keeps its con- 
stant pace, and flies as fast in idleness, as in employ- 
ment. Whether we play, or labour, or sleep, or 
dance, or study, the Sunne posteth, and the 
Sand runnes." FitzGerald paraphrased Felltham 
in the humorous verses that he named " Chronomos "; 
buried deep in his Suffolk, the Laird of Little- 
Grange (for so he liked to sign himself) could not 
escape the Scythe-bearer, — and turned the matter, 
therefore, to a pleasantry. Read his correspondence, 
and you will be surprised, not at any sameness in it, 
but at the steadiness of the interests and sympathies 
and occupations which it reflects. Part of all this 
may be explained by the want of ambition in the 
man's composition. One can imagine him reading 
with approval Flaubert's youthful confession. " Do 
I long to be successful ? " the future novelist asked 
himself, as student of the law. " Have I ambition, 
like a boot-black, who aspires to be a shoe-maker; 
like a driver, who would be a stud-groom ; like 
footmen, that aim at being masters ; your fellow with 
a future, who would become deputy or minister, 
wear a ribbon or be a town-councillor ? All that 
seems to me very dismal, and as unattractive as a 
four-penny dinner or a humanitarian lecture. But 
it is, after all, everybody's mania : therefore, were 
it only to be singular, not necessarily from taste or 
breeding, or even inclination, it is good to remain in 
the crowd, and to leave ambition to the scum, who 
are forever pushing themselves, and swarm in every 
street. As for us, let us remain at home, watching 
the public pass from the height of our balcony, — 
and if we are bored at times, well, we can spit on 
their heads, and continue our conversation, and 
watch the sunset in the west." Only, FitzGerald 
would have left out one part of Flaubert's pro- 
gramme, we hope. There is nothing so rude in the 
letter he once wrote to Charles Eliot Norton, refer- 
ring to the translations which he made from time to 
time, " partly as an amusement in a lonely life," 
and which were published, he said, " to make an 
end of the matter." 

Fanny Kemble said of FitzGerald that he was 
distinguished by the possession of rare intellectual 
and artistic gifts ; she left it unsaid that he never 
brought these gifts to their highest pitch. Poet, 
musician, painter, and scholar, she called him ; add- 
ing, " If he had not shunned notoriety as studiously 
as most people seek it, he would have achieved a 
foremost place among the eminent men of his day." 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



179 



Socially, the poet never had all that was his due. 
This was perhaps well, since he would never have 
tolerated the petting of a " FitzGerald Society "; to 
say nothing of taking pleasure in such a trumpery 
business, as Browning seemed to. Putting it baldly, 
FitzGerald was, besides, socially impossible. That 
was the impression of his unhappy wife (who in- 
sisted on making him as unhappy as she was, 
while that was in her power), and it would be our 
impression too, if we were not sentimental over 
persons who are dead, and honored dead to boot. 
Poetically, FitzGerald was slighted in his own times ; 
that is, his " Rubiiiydt " was slow to win its meed 
of admiration. Popular approval came so late that 
there was no time for the poet to do more than 
lengthen the body of the " Rub^iydt " and to change 
the shape of the sleeves. But all that is handsomely 
atoned for now. He has been duly overestimated, 
and has had his Variorum and Definitive Edition, 
albeit there is little enough worth treasuring in 
those seven fine volumes but the " Rub^iydt " itself 
and the " Meadows in Spring " (vide any anthol- 
ogy), and the description of the rowing-match and 
Christ Church meadows in " Euphranor." His 
earlier neglect has been atoned, as has been said ; 
we are gone, in fine, to quite the opposite extreme. 
When were there school-girls lacking to recite, 
" I sometimes think that never blows so red 
The Rose, as where some buried Caesar bled, — 

tears in their voices and holes in their handker- 
chiefs? There are Omar Khayyam Clubs, also, 
which plant roses from Omar's grave on the grave 
in an English churchyard ! FitzGerald was the 
first to deplore the exaggeration in it all, — the 
exaggeration of his merits " as Translator," he was 
careful to state, "not as Poet, of course." And 
he did not fail to observe that America was the 
chief sinner : even to the pirating of his translation. 

IV. 

But this is not a literary estimate of Edward 
FitzGerald — not in any formal sense, that is. Were 
it that, it would be one's duty once more to praise 
his rendering of Omar's "desperate beauty," not- 
withstanding the silly overpraise of the poet by ten 
thousand amateurs. The very manner in which he 
fought shy of publicity in his lifetime accentuates 
the circumstance that since his death he has been 
adulated, not merely as the man in a million who 
executed " the work of a poet inspired by a poet," 
but even more, perhaps, as something of a hermit 
and very much of a bear, and altogether as one of 
the really picturesque figures in our prosaic literary 
history. The "Omar" has been so often gushed 
over that there is to-day little gratefulness in the 
gushing. Instead of writing about it, however, there 
always remains the poem itself to be re-read ; even 
though we know it by heart almost as well as we 
know the numerous parodies. One may do worse, 
too, than read what Professor Norton wrote in the 
" North American Review " just forty years ago. 



It was the first adequate recognition that the anony- 
mous translator had won from the critics ; and it 
stands the tests for sound criticism to-day as well as 
in the happy hour when Norton wrote it out. Then 
there is an excellent review by Mr. Gosse. Most 
of the rest is superfluous ; the " Rubdiyd.t " speaks 
for itself. And there 's an end to the matter — and 
to the translator too, as translator alone. 

Happily FitzGerald is, for us, not translator 
alone, nor merely the sentimental gentleman who 
went shares with "Posh" (the bibulous boat-man 
whom we prefer to call "Pish"), nor the lazy and 
erratic personage who spoke to a man one day and 
cut him dead the next. It is our good fortune that 
he was also a great letter-writer — one of the crispest 
and most pleasure-giving in all his century. His 
effects seem less studied (a great consideration in 
letter-writing) than Stevenson's; the personality is 
gentler than Carlyle's ; the body of letters is larger 
and their range wider than Lamb's, which he so 
loved. His letters are, then, worth everyone's reading. 
They make a fine bed-book, or an excellent birthday 
gift. They are warranted to contain a minimum of 
Tennyson anecdotes. Also, how fully have they the 
smell of the soil, and the scent of the garden where 
their writer pottered ; and how rich they are with 
allusions — literary, personal, such as only a poet and 
awide (but dainty) reader knows how to use ! Every- 
where, too, is the reflection of that piquant person- 
ality which never lost itself in the correspondent's. 
It is on the letters that we would dwell ; the bloom 
is on them yet. They form the man's most perfect 
monument, preserving, as they do, the record of his 
rare old friendships. It was in his friendships that 
he was least the dilletante. " They are more like 
loves, I think," was his own phrase for the enduring 
bonds with Thackeray and Tennyson and Cowell and 
the rest. 

And the letters bring us }fa.ck to the subject. They 
were conditioned by that life FitzGerald led of the 
lighter literary labors. The poet was little over 
thirty when he wrote to Bernard Barton, from 
London, that he would like to live all the days of 
his life in a small house just outside a pleasant 
English town : making himself useful in a humble 
way, reading his books, and playing a rubber of whist 
at night. " Time will tell us," he said ; and quoted : 

" Come what come may, 
Time and the Hour runs through the roughest day." 

" I also am an Arcadian," he wrote to Frederic 
Tennyson, not many years later. " Have been to 
Exeter — the coast of Devonshire — the Bristol 
Channel — and to visit a Parson in Dorsetshire. He 
wore cap and gown when I did at Cambridge — 
together did we roam the fields about Grandchester, 
discuss all things, thought ourselves fine fellows, and 
that one day we should make a noise in the world. 
He is now a poor Rector in one of the most out-of- 
the-way villages in England — has five children — 
fats and kills his pig — smokes his pipe — loves his 
home and cares not ever to be seen or heard out of 



180 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



it. I was much amused with his company ; he much 
pleased to see me : we had not met face to face for 
fifteen years — and now both of us such very sedate 
unambitious people ! " "A little Bedfordshire — a 
little Northamptonshire — a little more folding of 
the hands — the same fields — the same thoughts 
occurring at the same turns of road — this is all I 
have to tell of ; nothing at all added — but the 
summer gone." Not with impunity, as Mr. Benson 
has dared to say in his discriminating memoir of 
FitzGerald, does a man shirk the primal inheritance 
of labor. We cannot think FitzGerald's to have 
been a very happy life. And yet, as one reads the 
letters, and as one reviews the life, with its pleasures 
found in the making of translations (which he sent 
to his friends, and not to the reviews), and in the 
reading of "large still books," one sees what Lowell 
meant when he wrote : " We are so hustled about 
by fortune, that I found solace as I read, in think- 
ing that here was a man who insisted on having life 
to himself, and largely had it accordingly." And 
we could well close our chapter with the verses that 
Lowell wrote in his Epistle to Curtis, some lines 
of which he might have written for this friend that 
lived and died in Suffolk, near the sea : 

'' I love too well the pleasures of retreat 
Safe from the crowd and cloistered from the street, 
The fire that whispers its domestic joy, 
Flickering on walls that knew me still a boy . . . 
Calm days that loiter with snow-silent tread, 
Nor break my commune with the undying dead ; 
Truants of Time, to-morrow like to-day. 
That come unhid, and claimless glide away 
By shelves that sun them in the indulgent past, 
Where Spanish castles, even, were built to last ..." 

May those castles have proved an enduring refuge 
for the poet ! FitzGerald, with another than Lowell, 
could have cried out, " Life is the dream of a 
shadow. What is it which has always come be- 
tween real life and me?" Like the pens6e writers, 
he was more anxious about truths than Truth ; 
more anxious, too, about satisfactions than true sat- 
isfaction. " A prisoner in Doubting-Castle," is his 
own characterization of himself. The curse of the 
nineteenth century lay upon him — upon him, who 
thought himself out of the current of his times. 
Daudet's poet in the story of " Jack " had the fore- 
head of an '' impotent Buddha "; one thinks of him 
even as one admires the fine brows of FitzGerald. 
There is the same reminiscence when one looks at 
the pictures of Flaubert. '' Oh, what a lot of money 
I would give to be either more stupid or less intel- 
lectual!" cried the boy Flaubert in a letter to his 
comrade Chevalier. " Atheist or mystic ! but at any 
rate something complete and whole, an identity ; 
in a word, something." We are waiting to be told 
what it was that doomed these men, these Flauberts 
and FitzGeralds, to an incompleteness that seems 
almost failure. Does the expression, " atrophy of 
the will," help to explain the riddle ? 

Warren Barton Blake. 



CAS UA L COM MENT. 

The function of the bookstore is pro- 
nounced by Professor Mlinsterberg to be not less 
important than that of the public library. In an 
article on "The Disorganization of the Book-Trade," 
published in the current " Atlantic," he points out 
some interesting though not encouraging facts, and 
suggests a way to revive the declining traffic in 
books. Whereas in any German city of one hun- 
dred thousand inhabitants the visitor is sure to find 
from twelve to twenty well-appointed bookstores, 
and at least one such store in any but the very 
smallest of German towns, in America even large 
cities are often content to make the book-trade a 
mere side-line in the department store or an incon- 
spicuous branch of the stationery shop's business. 
European bookstores are increasing, ours are dying 
out ; and there is a corresponding difference between 
the publishing statistics of a country like Germany 
and the United States. The former nation, with 
its sixty million inhabitants, issued last year 28,703 
new books (including, we assume, new editions, 
which in Germany are as a rule much more than 
mere reprints), while the latter, with eighty million 
inhabitants, put forth only 8112 new works. This 
humiliating difference is traceable to various causes, 
— our devotion to our newspapers and magazines, 
our neglect of the art of leisure, our addiction to the 
motor-car and the bridge-whist table, our lack of a 
proper copyright law, and our wasteful and expen- 
sive methods, in the publishing house no less than 
in the kitchen. The rehabilitation of the bookstore 
in all our cities and villages would, thinks the 
writer, work a revival in the book-trade, and so in 
the publishing industry ; and, since conditions are 
so forbidding to small capitalists, he suggests that 
the great publishing houses themselves establish retail 
stores in as many places as possible. One comment, 
at least, is to be made on all this. Professor Mlin- 
sterberg hardly notes — he certainly does not dwell 
upon — the difference of conditions obtaining in the 
two countries named by reason of the greater devel- 
opment of the public library, with all its varied but 
related activities, in this country. The free library 
with its branches serves some of the ends of the 
bookstore, and it also contributes no little toward 
the support of the publisher. 

• • • 

A sure road to the mad-house is entered, 
opines Mr. Charles F. Lummis of the Los Angeles 
Public Library, by the unwary mortal who essays to 
compile authoritative and useful comparative statis- 
tics from the annual reports published by American 
libraries. A mighty maze without a plan many of 
these reports certainly are ; and more or less defective 
they all seem to the person hunting in haste for some 
particular item of information. Mr. Lummis recom- 
mends that the A. I-. A. " provide a form to be 
filled out by every librarian in the country" when 
he proceeds to draw up his annual statement of 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



181 



things achieved and triumphs won. Under present 
conditions, as our California friend well puts it, 
"you don't know whether the 'total registration' 
means the live borrowers, or whether it includes (as 
it does in the case of a good many public libraries, 
and did here until this administration) all the people 
since dead, wounded or missing, who have ever in 
the last half-century or so signed the more or less 
inconvenient registration cards of the library in 
question. You do not know whether the gain for 
the year ' in registration ' is net gain, or is a con- 
tinuation of the obituary list — namely, a mere list 
of the new registration." You do not know, he 
continues, what " circulation " means — whether the 
issue of a book for home use, or, besides that, the 
casual opening of a volume in the library " by any 
patron incidentally thus detected ' in flagrant de- 
light.' " And so on, in varied vocabulary and 
picturesque phrase. A uniform rule and method in 
the statistical section of library reports is indeed to 
be desired ; but elsewhere the librarian may well 
be allowed some of that freedom of fancy which 
Mr. Lummis continues to enjoy — to the refreshment 
of his readers. A prominent library tried for a 
while the dictionary plan for its annual report, and 
the scheme was not a bad one ; but for some reason 
it has now been abandoned. Only give our librarians 
time, however, and they will evolve the perfect 
library report. ... 

The living reality of the dead past is some- 
times made very vivid by a current event of small 
importance in itself to the great preoccupied world. 
The recent death in his ninetieth year of the En- 
glish portrait-painter, Lowes Dickinson, probably 
attracted little attention beyond his circle of acquaint- 
ance. Yet to us it is a forcible reminder that such 
a person as Charlotte Bronte once actually lived 
and toiled and suffered, and then went the way of 
all flesh. Mr. Dickinson married in 1857 the daugh- 
ter of Richard Smith "Williams, who was reader to 
Smith, Elder & Co., the publishers, and who had 
the discernment to recognize the genius of " Currer 
Bell." Some of Miss Bronte's letters to Mr. Will- 
iams are given in Mrs. Gaskell's biography of her, 
and the discovery of a link connecting Currer Bell's 
correspondent with the now living and writing Mr. 
G. Lowes Dickinson (son of the artist), is a pleasant 
thing to readers of Mrs. Gaskell, the late death of 
whose daughter Julia (a favorite of Miss Bronte's 
and fondly mentioned in her letters) is another 
melancholy but vivid reminder of Haworth days and 
Haworth people. Charlotte Bronte herself would 
not have to be of patriarchal age to be alive now 
— a good seven years short of a century, — and 
yet, in a vague way, we are wont to associate her 
chronologically with Miss Austen, Miss Edgeworth, 
Fanny Burney, and other writers of the late eight- 
eenth or very early nineteenth century. The over- 
lapping of Madame D'Arblay's life with Charlotte 
Bronte's, and of hers with Dickinson's, cannot but 
bring Dr. Johnson, Goldsmith, Burke, and all that 



famous company, nearer to us than before. In this 
connection it is curious to think how very few old 
women, joined hand to hand, it would need to con- 
nect us with Shakespeare. 

• • • 

The secret enthusiasms of Edward Fitz- 
Gerald simmered silently, as was proper, in his 
own breast. He held his emotions, his longings, his 
aspirations, well in hand, and had ever the air of 
expecting nothing of fortune, in order never to be 
disappointed by her. He was not one to give host- 
ages to that fickle dame. Whether or not he feared 
his fate too much, he certainly conveys the impres- 
sion of never daring to " put it to the touch, to gain 
or lose it all." So much the more interesting, 
therefore, are those stray indications of unsmothered 
enthusiasm discernible in the yellow pages of a little 
old commonplace book in which he made miscella- 
neous entries, mostly of quoted matter, between 
1831 and 1840. Dr. Robertson NicoU and Mr. 
Thomas J. Wise, in their " Literary Anecdotes of 
the Nineteenth Century," have printed a few sample 
extracts from this "long, thin book, with marbled 
cover, worn leather back, and time-stained pages," 
whose fortunate possessor ought some day to publish 
the whole. The original owner, who was destined 
to an all but solitary life, is found quoting the 
" golden law " from Montrose's '' Song to his Lady ": 
" True love begun shall never end ; 
Love one and love no more." 

In full accord with his own sentiments are the lines 
he quotes from Herrick, beginning : 

" Sweet country life, to such unknown, 
Whose lives are others', not their own." 

The distinctive, the characteristic, the unhackneyed, 
he is quick to seize upon ; the conventional, the 
pompous, and the artificial, he dismisses with scorn. 
This little note-book might well, without fear of 
unwelcome revelations, be given to " old Fitz's " 
wide circle of admirers as a centennial memorial. 

The late Carroll D. Wright was a worker in 
several fields, and he distinguished himself in each 
of them. Some will remember him chiefly as an 
economist, others as a statistician, others again as 
a social reformer, still others as a religious leader, a 
few as an old soldier of the Civil War, where he 
rose to be colonel of a New Hampshire volunteer 
regiment, while to his later acquaintance he will 
be eminent as an educator — as the head, for seven 
years, of Clark College, and the advocate of a three- 
years college course that shall, by eliminating inter- 
collegiate athletics, accomplish all that has hitherto 
been done in four years of undergraduate study. 
As an author, too, mainly in the fields of political 
economy, practical sociology, and industrial evolu- 
tion and statistics, he deserves to be remembered. 
Among his best-known works are : " The Factory 
System of the United States," "The Relation of 
Political Economy to the Labor Question," "The 
Industrial Evolution of the United States," " Outlines 



182 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



of Practical Sociology," and "Battles of Labor." 
Cut off in his sixty-ninth year, he was hoping, 
when first he became conscious of decline, to live 
long enough to accomplish two cherished objects, — 
the completion of the " Economic History of the 
United States " that he was editing for the Carnegie 
Institution, and the celebration of the tenth birthday 
of Clark College. Had he entered upon educational 
work earlier, he could not have failed to achieve 
noteworthy results, despite his lack of special train- 
ing for that work. Of sound judgment, of hopeful 
temperament, loyal to every obligation, and endowed 
with a healthy moral sense as his New England 
birthright, he left a vacancy that cannot easily be 
filled. . , . 

President Angell's resignation as head of 
the University of Michigan, coming so soon after 
President Eliot's similar action at Cambridge, and 
almost simultaneously with Carroll D. Wright's 
termination of his work at Clark College, and also 
at the time when Dartmouth is looking for a suc- 
cessor to President Tucker, makes one acutely sen- 
sible of the transitoriness of things academical. The 
old order does indeed change pretty rapidly ; the 
individual president withers, though the college 
itself is more and more. President Angell's thirty- 
eight years' term of office, following upon other 
successful activities both in education and in diplo- 
macy, cannot in brief space receive fitting appreciar 
tion ; but, in the words of one entitled to pass an 
opinion, his " position on the day of his retirement 
will be one which men of far more spectacular glory 
could envy. His fame — of whatever degree it 
proves — is perfectly secure. The affectionate re- 
gard of two or three generations of citizens is his, 
past the possibility of decay. Dissenting voices are 
infrequent and weak. . . . The teaching staff, which 
is of all best situated for passing judgment, throws 
light on some unpleasant flaws. But the worst of 
these are shallow-based. As for the general inten- 
tion and effect of his work, and especially for the 
man himself, it is doubtful if Michigan has another 
whom his worst enemies can load so little with 
reproach." ... 

A defence of the signed review is made by 
Mr. Clement K. Shorter in a recent issue of " The 
Sphere." "I have seen the full iniquity of the 
anonymous review," he says, "especially when it is 
written by the man who is persuaded that he is a 
great specialist on the subject. In all cases of 
special knowledge the anonymous review is without 
justification. : . . While something may be said 
for the anonymous critic so far as fiction and other 
large areas of book-reviewing are concerned, the 
thing becomes an infamy where any special knowl- 
edge is required. ... It [the signed review] would 
have the further advantage that it would make clear 
to the public that a half-dozen reviews are all written 
by the same pen. At present the innocent reader 
is apt to assume that these journals reflect six indi- 
vidual views, whereas they are often the opinion 



of one man." Times have changed since Sidney 
Smith and Jeffrey founded the "Edinburgh Review," 
and in these days of free thought and a free press 
the critic's excuses for fighting under cover have 
long since disappeared. As for the advantages of 
a signature, we should be inclined to go even further 
than Mr. Shorter. Is there any sort of reviewing 
where " special knowledge," not necessarily of 
subject-matter, but of form, style, literary effect and 
finish, is not required ? And granting that, what 
sort of literary criticism really loses anything by a 
declaration of its authority ? The merely descrip- 
tive book-notice, too often confused in popular 
discussion with the critical review, may reasonably 
be left without signature ; it is valuable because it 
is impersonal. But in matters of taste and opinion 
if a man's word is worth anything, why should he 
not father it ? ... 

The pernicious " manufacturing clause " in 
OUR COPYRIGHT LAWS is to receive an added element 
of perniciousness, if the efforts of certain forces now 
at work prove successful. The bookbinders' unions, 
it seems, desire the clause amended so that to secure 
copyright not only must a book be printed from 
plates manufactured in this country, as is now the 
requirement, but it must also be hound in this coun- 
try. Such a proposal will doubtless be defeated by 
its own absurdity. Indeed, if justice and common 
sense have their way, it is likely that the " manu- 
facturing clause " will be wiped out altogether in the 
next revision of our copyright laws. In such a 
revision there is ample room for strengthening and 
extending the only legitimate function of copyright 
legislation, i. e., the protection of authors. Our 
" infant " book-manufacturing industries are still 
sufficiently " protected " by a tariff tax (levied on the 
American bookbuyer) of twenty-five per cent ad 
valorem. To subsidize them still further, under 
cover of our copyright laws, is an incongruity that 
should no longer be endured, — and especially as 
this concession defeats in many cases the direct 
purposes of copyright by making it impossible for 
all but the most affluent of British and foreign 
authors to protect their work in this country. 

• • • 

The COST of circulating a library book, 
computed by dividing the total of annual salaries 
by the number of volumes issued, has been the topic 
of some recent writing and discussion. "The Li- 
brary World," in its late outburst on the subject of 
American library extravagance, assured us that 
whereas in England the cost of circulation is three 
farthings for each book, in this land of princely 
salaries and lavish expenditure it is fivepence. Some 
interesting comparisons under this head are to be 
found in the current report of the Los Angeles 
Public Library. It appears that in Boston it costs 
almost seventeen cents to lend a book, in Chicago 
nine cents and one mill, in New York twenty-three 
cents and four mills, in Brooklyn eleven cents and 
four mills, in Providence fourteen cents; but in 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



183 



thrifty Los Angeles only seven cents and five mills. 
Who will wonder that our British censor was 
shocked (and the least bit touched with envy) at 
beholding the way we spend our public library 
funds? If private circulating libraries can lend 
books at two cents a day each (the average loan 
being perhaps for six or eight days) and make 
money at it, why should it cost a public library more 
than two cents a day per volume, as it seems to in 
some instances, to keep its books in circulation ? 
• • • 

The public library as a bureau of inform- 
ation renders important service, whether or not 
strictly legitimate, to the community. The free 
library of Cardiff is said to stand in the very fore- 
front of progress in one respect : it has established 
a telephone inquiry department, and, if one may 
credit the reports coming from the head librarian, 
the new departure has proved a great success. The 
inquiries received cover a wide range of subjects, — 
conscriptien, cooperation, steam-boilers, hedge-hogs, 
ladies' fans, old-age pensions, tailoring, and many 
other more or less abstruse matters. Where the 
question requires time for answering properly, the 
questioner is rung up again, but many inquiries are 
immediately answerable. Card-holders are enabled 
to ascertain whether any desired book is available, 
and to order its reservation if it is at present out. 
As sample questions the following are given : 
" Number of Protestants and Roman Catholics in 
Wales ? " " What patents have been taken out for 
buffer springs ? " " Who wrote ' Make new friends, 
but keep the old ? ' " These were all answered. The 
number of trivial and senseless questions that come 
in over the wire is gratifyingly small. 
• • • 

Of making many books, we are told on high 
authority, there is no end, and much study is a 
weariness of the flesh. The past year in the book 
world has been one of energetic production and of 
comparatively languid demand for the product. " In 
my opinion," declares Mr. Gerald Duckworth, the 
London publisher, " there are too many authors, too 
many books published, and too many publishers." 
" The market was flooded with mechanical fiction," 
avers another publisher, "and the public detected 
the grinding of the machine." Overproduction is, 
happily, a fault that tends to correct itself ; super- 
fluous producers are crowded out, and only the fittest 
survive — in the world of books as in that of shoes 
or pianos or any other necessities or luxuries. One 
rather encouraging sign of the season, in London at 
least, was the demand for a few books of worth and 
eminence — like Lord Morley's "Gladstone" in 
its less expensive edition and Queen Victoria's " Let- 
ters " — works which are thought to have been at 
any rate partly responsible for the lessened demand 
in other fields of literature. There might be a 
worse catastrophe than a falling-off in the desire for 
mechanical fiction and other machine-made books. 



Chaucer and the "New Thought" may at 
the first blush be deemed very widely separated — 
sundered, in fact, by some five centuries of time. 
Nevertheless, as it isf a wholesome corrective of 
pride, whether spiritual or intellectual, to be re- 
minded every now and then of the antiquity and 
staleness of our fancied up-to-dateness, it may be of 
benefit to turn to the 982d line of " The Romaunt 
of the Rose," where we find that the fifth of the 
" fyve arowes of other gyse " held by the " bachelere 
ycleped Swete-Loking " was named " the Newe- 
Thought." It is to be regretted that the poet 
failed to enlarge on the nature and peculiarities of 
this " newe-tbought," but perhaps his very silence is 
a proof of its being too well-known to his contem- 
poraries to need description. The immediate con- 
text, however, if any care to look up the passage, 
will be found to be rather significant and instructive. 



COMMUNICA TION. 



THE ENCOURAGEMENT OF LITERATURE 

IN LIBRARIES. 

(To the Editor of The Dial.) 

I am sure that many working librarians have, like 
myself, read with hearty approval the suggestion lately 
made in your journal, that heneflcence toward libraries 
might advantageously be directed toward the inside as 
well as the outside of the institution; that the gift of 
buildings might well he supplemented by occasional 
gifts of books that are worthy and desirable, but would 
otherwise not be likely to be added to the collection. 
We already have many dignified library buildings 
" which are a credit to our fair city," as the President 
of the Board of Directors remarks on dedication day. 
But fuel and light and salaries cost a deal of money; 
so do repairs and " incidentals." The pitifully meagre 
residuum we may spend on books. First of all, we 
mtist buy plenty of copies of the popular novels of the 
day. They are often unobjectional and desirable, and 
the taxpayer is justified in his clamor for them. But, 
alas! too often we have no money left with which to 
purchase the Pennells' " Whistler " or Lowell's " Gov- 
ernment of England " ; while that choice edition of 
" Purchas his Pilgrimes " is simply out of the question, 
even though a copy may be had at a great bargain. 

The object of that splendid endowment, the " General 
Education Fund," is " to promote, systematize and make 
effective the various forms of educational beneficence." 
On investigation the honorable gentlemen charged with 
the disbursement of this fund might discover that many 
a monumental public library is an institiition rather 
ineffective in the higher realms of culture. This is by 
no means the fault of librarians. Our expensive library 
machinery is in good working order. Librarians are 
best pleased when it is working with the best of mate- 
rials. Most of us now refuse to deal with stuff that is 
positively shoddy. The popular demand is for goods 
of a passable quality, even if dyed in rather crude 
colors. Shall we not have an opportunity to handle 
occasionally the more gracious silks and satins — the 
finer and rarer products of literature ? 

Asa Don Dickinson. 

Leavenworth, Kansas, March 3, 1909. 



184 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



C^^ S^to §00ks. 



The Mountains of the Moon.* 



Commercial greed and political schemes no 
longer play an important part in exploration. 
The sand wastes of the Sahara, the rock wastes 
of Tibet, the ice wastes around the Poles, the 
jungles of Africa, and the vast expanses of 
unexplored South America, offer very little 
inducement to the mercenary spirit. But the lure 
of the unknown, the appeal of terr'a incognita^ 
the call of the wild, and the search for the curi- 
ous, are as ever the strong determining factors 
that draw the venturesome to endure the perils 
and the hardships of the almost inconceivable 
places on the earth. If the modern explorer 
may draw a few new and definite geographical 
lines, if he may determine the elevation of an 
isolated mountain, and if happily he may dis- 
cover some new though worthless feature on the 
globe, he is content. His mite of information 
goes toward filling in some bare spots of geo- 
graphical knowledge, though it brings no re- 
wards to the commercially minded or adds no 
breadth to a king's domain. 

Such an explorer is Prince Luigi Amedeo of 
Savoy, better known to fame and newspaper 
advertisement as H. R. H. the Duke of the 
Abruzzi. As an explorer, his record includes 
the ascent of Mount St. Elias, the farthest north 
in Arctic exploration, and finally the actual 
discovery of the mysterious legendary moun- 
tains of Ptolemy — the Mountains of the Moon, 
in Equatorial Africa, upon the borders of Congo 
and Uganda. The account of this last expedi- 
tion is now given in the volume entitled " Ruwen- 
zori," the new name of the old mythical range 
of mountains. 

This moimtain system holds a peculiar posi- 
tion in geographical history. Ptolemy, follow- 
ing the persistent native traditions, located the 
towering snowy range somewhere in the depths 
of central Africa. Generations of succeeding 
geographers have contented themselves with 
either accepting his shadowy statement or deny- 
ing it. Stanley, in 1876, was the first white 
man to be near these mountains, but owing 
to the fog and mist which almost perpetually 
hang over them, he did not see the imposing 
sight. In 1888 Stanley saw the mountains, 
but made no exploration of them. One year 

♦Buwenzori. An Account of the Expedition of H. R. H. 
Prince Luigi Amedeo of Savoy, Duke of the Abruzzi. By Filippo 
de Filippi, P. R.Q. S. ; with Preface by H. R. H. the Duke of the 
Abruzzi. Ulustrated in color, etc. NewYork: E.P.Dutton&Oo. 



later, Lieutenant Stairs, of Stanley's expedition, 
attempted to ascend one of the great peaks, but 
attained an altitude of only eleven thousand feet. 
In 1905 some members of the British Museimi 
expedition reached a height of sixteen thousand 
feet. It remained for the Duke of the Abruzzi, 
with a carefully prepared expedition, to ascend 
the highest peaks, to map the configurations, to 
locate the watersheds which feed the Nile, to 
determine the extent and the position of the 
glaciers, to note the fauna and the flora, and to 
dispel the mystery which had so long perplexed 
the makers of African geography. 

A summary of the Duke's expedition might 
lead the reader of this review to expect to find 
the book replete with interesting, even thrilling, 
details. This expectation will, however, be dis- 
appointed. Being engrossed with other affairs, 
His Royal Highness was prevented from writing 
the book, and turning over his journals to his 
friend Cavaliere Fillipo de Filippi, he commis- 
sioned him to recount the affairs of the expedi- 
tion. Hence the narrative comes to us at second 
hand. Very unfortunately, too, Cavaliere de 
Filippi was not a member of the party, though 
he had on a former expedition been the Duke's 
companion. Had the explorer told his own 
story, the book would no doubt have been more 
lively in style and more vital in content. But 
these unavoidable defects in the narrative by no 
means disparage the intrinsic merit of the expedi- 
tion, which went forth, not for a story, but to 
discover and catalogue scientific data. And as 
a record of important scientific discovery, no 
possible fault can be found with the book. 

Setting out from Naples, on the sixteenth of 
April, 1906, the expedition began the African 
part of its journey at Mombasa in British East 
Africa, thence extended to Port Florence on 
Lake Victoria, and finally arrived at Entebbe, 
the capital of Uganda. Fifteen days more of 
, travelling through equatorial swamps and jungles 
brought the party to the beginning of its work, 
within sight of the icy peaks of Ruwenzori, 
looming high above the tropic jungle and shed- 
ding their glacial waters into the Nile. By 
September the object of the expedition had been 
accomplished. The different peaks and glaciers 
had been explored ; the summits of two peaks, 
each nearly seventeen thousand feet high, had 
been surmounted by the Duke, who planted an 
Italian flag on one of the peaks and an English 
flag on the other, and named them respectively 
Margherita and Alexandra, "in order that, 
under the auspices of these two royal ladies, the 
memories of the two nations may be handed down 



I 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



186 



to posterity — of Italy, whose name was the first 
to resound on these snows in a shout of victory, 
and of England, which in its marvellous colonial 
expansion carries civilization to the slopes of these 
remote mountains." 

No reader of this book can possibly be dis- 
appointed with the many beautiful half-tone and 
photogravure plates made from photographs 
taken by Cavaliere Vittorio Sella. We have 
never seen more remarkable panoramic pictures 
of mountain scenery than are here reproduced. 

H. E. COBLENTZ. 



Chaucer axd his Times.* 



In giving us a book on so inviting a theme 
as " Chaucer and his England," Mr. Coulton 
has attempted a most useful task, viz.: to fur- 
nish some account of Chaucer the man, with a 
very full description of the world in which he 
lived and some parts of which are reflected in 
his poems. For two reasons a good book on 
this subject is desirable. First, the measure of 
success attained by any literature or literary 
work in interpreting life or a section of it can- 
not be determined until the critic knows some- 
thing of the life presim^iably mirrored in the 
literature. Such a knowledge of the age of 
Edward the Third is not easily accessible. With 
many phases of the history of the period, the 
historians — Trevelyan, Oman, and others — 
have been busy ; yet we know of no book of 
similar compass from which one can learn so 
much of the private life of fourteenth-century 
England as one can from Mr. Coulton's. It is 
weU arranged ; it is not overloaded with general 
statements ; the author writes as a rule with 
steady concentration, and is evidently much in- 
terested in his subject. His work, therefore, 
has not been done perfunctorily ; his book is 
fresh and stimulating. 

Secondly, even for those who read Chaucer 
not with a critical eye but merely for the sake 
of knowledge or inspiration, a body of work 
like his can be much better understood if studied 
in connection with an informal running com- 
mentary such as is afforded by this book. Mr. 
Coulton has worked, of course, in a very different 
field from that of Dr. Root's " Poetry of Chau- 
cer " or of Professor Tatlock's " Development 
and Chronology of Chaucer's Works." He has 
nothing to say of literary sources, theories of 
authorship, or dates ; indeed, he is not exces- 



•Chaucek and his England. By G. G. Coulton. 
trated. New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons. 



Illus- 



sively critical about the facts of Chaucer's life, 
although he rejects Mr. Walter Rye's view that 
Chaucer was a Norfolk man. At some points 
he draws freely upon his imagination — for ex- 
ample in describing Chaucer's childhood ; yet 
the result perhaps is plausible enough. Assum- 
ing that Chaucer was a perfectly normal boy, 
we may suppose that he did play games of ball, 
bring his cock to fight in school on Shrove 
Tuesday, and indulge in football, " leaping, 
dancing, shooting, wrestling, and casting the 
stone "; that he loitered along the busy Thames, 
studying the sailors, and went in due time to a 
grammar school, taking his turn under the rod 
of the pedagogue. In the utter absence of facts, 
this theory will answer well enough ; but we 
must bear in mind that it is only an a prion 
theory. 

In connection with Chaucer's married life, 
Mr. Coulton has some sensible if unromantic 
things to say about conjugal love in the four- 
teenth century. " However apocryphal," he 
remarks, " may be the alleged solemn verdict of 
a Court of Love that husband and wife had no 
right to be in love with each other [why regard 
it as either apocryphal or solemn ?] , the sentence 
was at least recognized as hen trovato; and 
nobody who has closely studied mediaeval society, 
either in romance or in chronicle, would suppose 
that Chaucer blushed to feel a hopeless passion 
for another, or to write openly of it while he had 
a vnfe of his own." By implication, then, Mr. 
Coulton assumes that the imrequited love which 
had tortured Chaucer for eight years prior to 
1366 (" Blaunche the Duchesse " 30 ff.) was an 
actual and not merely a conventional emotion. 
While this is possible, such an assumption, as 
Mr. Sypherd has shown, is by no means a safe 
one. Nor is the " evidence " of unhappiness in 
his married life conclusive ; it would not be even 
if his literary allusions to wedded life were 
uniformly (instead of "predominantly") dis- 
respectful, for he was under no obligation to 
write autobiography, and even if he did allude 
to actual unhappiness in his own life it may have 
been humorously exaggerated. Finally, are we 
warranted in taking the above lines as an allu- 
sion to a love experience, whether real or feigned? 
The poet himself puts it very vaguely ; he can- 
not tell why he cannot sleep, etc. It is hard to 
see why a real and actual experience should be 
described in such vague terms. Did the poet 
mean that the passage should be understood? 

Concerning the loss of Chaucer's position as 
Clerk of the Works, in June, 1391, after a two- 
year tenure of office, Mr. Coulton thinks " it is 



186 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



difficult to resist the conviction that Chaucer 
was by this time recognized as an unbusiness- 
like person," since at this time " we can find 
nothing in the political situation to account for 
the dismissal." This is not impossible ; yet 
other alternatives suggest themselves. Until 
further evidence is forthcoming, Lounsburys 
remarks ("Studies in Chaucer " i. 85 ff.) must 
suffice. 

We mention these points, not as of great 
importance in themselves, but as illustrating the 
direction in which the book is weak. When the 
author ventures far from the beaten path of 
biography into the attractive by-ways of con- 
jecture, he is not to be taken too seriously. The 
chief value of the book lies in the fresh and 
lifelike pictures it affords of society in town and 
country. The streets of London, its environs, 
its laws, the decay of the old chivalry and the 
rise of an aristocracy of industry and wealth, 
child-marriages, the science of courtly love, the 
Great War and the decline of knighthood, the 
condition of the poor, the cost of books, the 
amusements of the time, the uncertainties of 
justice, the corruption of the clergy, — these 
are among the topics vividly treated. The pic- 
tures Mr. Coulton draws for us form capital 
backgrounds for the actions of Chaucer's poems. 
Moreover, they bring home to us how small a 
section of the life of his day is presented even 
in the whole body of Chaucer's works. His 
fundamental purpose in writing was to enter- 
tain ; and however much he might sympathize 
with the poor and oppressed, their burden finds 
no record and elicits no outburst of sorrow or 
indignation in his pages. For this we must go 
to Langland (or the Langland group, if some 
of our latest writers carry their point) and to 
Gower. Yet Chaucer's limitations, consciously 
or unconsciously imposed, must not be men- 
tioned by way of reproach. Art is never super- 
fluous and ministers to humanity in one way as 
charity does in another. If Chaucer chose to 
restrict himself in his subject-matter, perhaps 
his work is in one sense all the more valuable 
for this reason : his portrayal of a small section 
of life is all the more complete and perfect. 
Mr. Coulton's concluding remarks may well be 
repeated here : 

" As it is, he stands the most Shakespearian figure in 
English literature, after Shakespeare himself. Age can- 
not wither him, nor custom stale his infinite variety. We 
venerate him for his years, and he daily startles us with 
the eternal freshness of his youth. All springtide is here, 
with its green leaves and singing-birds; aptly we read 
him stretched at length in the summer shade, yet almost 
more delightfully in winter, with our feet on the fender; 



for he smacks of all familiar comforts — old friends, old 
books, old wine, and even, by a proleptic miracle, old 
cigars. 'Here,' said Dryden,' is God's plenty';and Lowell 
inscribed the first leaf of his Chaucer with that promise 
which the poet himself set upon the enchanted gate of 
his ' Parliament of Fowls ' — 

" ' Through me men go into the blissful place 
Of the heart's heal and deadly woundes' cure ; 
Through me men go unto the well of Grace, 
Where green and lusty May doth ever endure ; 
This is the way to all good aveiiture ; 
Be glad, thou Reader, and thy sorrow o£Fcast, 
All open am I, pass in, and speed thee fast.' " 

Clark S. Northup. 



The Campaign of Santiago de Cuba.* 



Colonel Herbert H. Sargent, of the United 
States Army, has told the story of the brief 
campaign which speedily ended the war of 1898, 
accompanying his account, chapter by chapter, 
with the comments of a military critic. On the 
practical side of military affairs, the author has 
seen twenty-five years of service, being now a 
captain of cavalry in our regular establish- 
ment, while in 1898 he was colonel of the Fifth 
Volunteer Infantry, and during 1899-1901 was 
lieutenant-colonel of the Twenty-ninth Volun- 
teer Infantry which served in the Philippine 
Islands. On the theoretical side, he is a West 
Point graduate who has always kept up special 
studies in military history, and is the author of 
two volumes that have been favorably received 
both by military critics and readers in general, 
" Napoleon Bonaparte's First Campaign " and 
" The Campaign of Marengo." 

The American public derived from the 
journalist-critics of 1898, and still retains, cer- 
tain general impressions as to the management 
of our army during the brief war with Spain, 
and in particular as to the organization of the 
Santiago expedition and the direction of that 
little army in the field. These impressions were 
recorded in hasty but more permanent form in 
a number of books turned out for popular con- 
sumption immediately after the little war that 
for a time made us feel so big. More recently 
they have been repeated, as if they were estab- 
lished upon a sober historical basis, in Professor 
Latane's volume on the decade 1897-1907 
(" Amierica as a World Power ") in the " Amer- 
ican Nation " series. Now that ten years and 
more have passed, anyone who desires an unbi- 
ased verdict on the matter may be advised to 
consiilt Captain Sargent's work. Not that he 

• The Campaign of Santiago de Cuba. By Herbert H. Sar- 
gent. In three volumes. Chicago: A. C. McClurg& Co. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



187 



has constituted himself a defender of the War 
Department as administered in 1898, or of 
General Shafter in Cuba. His is no " official " 
account of the war at all. But he apparently 
believes that in the main the War Department 
and the Army staff corps met the situation 
about as well as could have been expected under 
all the circumstances, and that on the whole the 
land attack on Santiago was pretty well con- 
ducted, considering the conditions that had to be 
met. Doubtless many who have given these 
matters some study will feel that the note of 
criticism is not sufficiently heard in Captain 
Sargent's volumes ; that he has been somewhat 
too complaisant both with the lack of preparation 
and with the actual conduct of the skirmishes 
outside of Santiago that have been called 
" battles." Conceding this to be the case, it 
remains true that he has come much nearer to 
expressing the sober verdict of history upon 
these events than have the writers whose aim 
was partisan or sensation-seeking, or who have 
viewed them with entire lack or disregard of 
perspective. 

The engagements outside of Santiago have 
been called " skirmishes " above ; they would 
have assumed the status of mere " outpost af- 
fairs " in any real battle, — quite as this little 
Santiago campaign would, in a great war, 
speedily have sunk to the level of mere incident. 
The defects due to lack of preparation, the mis- 
takes made, the complaints of soldiers as to 
treatment and sickness during and after the 
campaign, are to be considered in this light; 
and Captain Sargent has the perspective of a 
student of military history. Just from the 
standpoint of historical perspective, however, 
one may offer a leading criticism, viz., that, con- 
sidering the relative unimportance (except in 
results) of the events treated, this history of 
them bulks unduly large. Not that the author 
goes too much into minutiae. The naval opera- 
tions, which really decided the war, occupy a 
good deal of space, even apart from their direct 
connection with the Santiago campaign. A con- 
siderable part of the first volume is devoted to 
the strategical problems as they appeared at the 
outset of the war ; and the " Comments," which 
deal primarily with questions of strategy and 
tactics, sometimes are longer than the text of 
the chapters to which they are appended. This 
involves a good deal of duplication, sometimes 
in connection with matter that seems either ele- 
mentary or very obvious. 

Yet the author's comments, like the narration 



itself, are written in a clear and pleasing style, 
and the work is an enjoyable one to read. The 
twelve sketch-maps scattered throughout are 
very useful, and there is an index which, as 
regards the proper names involved, is good. 
Volume III. also has a string of appendices, 
most of them documents regarding the Spanish 
troops in Cuba, obtained in the main from 
Spanish official sources. They are especially 
interesting as revealing the small number of 
Spaniards engaged in the combats at Caney 
and San Juan. Captain Sargent went to some 
trouble in this respect ; one wonders the more 
that he does not seem to have consulted Spanish 
and other foreign unofficial sources on the war, 
of which a good number were published in 1898 
and the succeeding few years. He does not 
append a bibliography, which is certainly de- 
sirable in such a work ; but from his footnotes 
and appendices it is apparent that he has trusted 
almost entirely to American sources — official 
reports and other writings. In several places 
he has drawn from the Spanish officers, Gomez 
Nunez and MiiUer y Tejeiro, translations from 
whose treatises were published in a government 
bulletin at Washington ; and in Appendix F he 
speaks of them as " the only accessible Spanish 
authorities on the subject." To be sure, most 
of the Spanish writings on the war in 1898 and 
1899 were put out for partisan purposes, or were 
otherwise of a very sensational character. Yet 
even the most ephemeral of these pamphlets has 
some value as showing what was the state of 
affairs among the Spaniards; and no final his- 
tory can be written from one side alone. More- 
over, there are in Spanish and French several 
treatises on the war, which have some value. 
Had he looked into the literature from that side. 
Captain Sargent would not have placed so much 
stress on the mere numerical force of the Spanish 
army in Cuba as it appeared on paper. Lack 
of equipment and care, especially medical care, 
corruption in regard to pay and supplies, like- 
wise the climate, had all played a part in making 
it, effectively, a force very inferior to the veteran 
army he supposes to have been under Blanco's 
orders. Nevertheless, the criticisms passed upon 
the failure to concentrate more men at Santiago, 
and to meet the situation with more energy and 
greater initiative, would hardly be modified in 
their essentials. Indeed, such criticisms would 
in some respects be strengthened by reference 
to the Spanish sources, showing the conduct of 
affairs in Cuba as it appeared from the inside. 

James A. LeEoy. 



188 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



The Newest Faust.* 



When it was announced that Mr. Stephen 
Phillips was at work on the Faust theme, read- 
ers of Goethe wondered what the result would 
be, — whether an original drama based on the 
old legend, or Goethe's " Faust " adapted to the 
English stage. The book turns out to be neither. 
The joint authors (for Mr. Phillips has collabo- 
rated with Mr. J. Comyns Carr) state on the 
title-page that their work is " freely adapted 
from Goethe's dramatic poem." The extreme 
freedom of the adaptation strikes the reader at 
first glance. After turning a few pages he re- 
calls Faust's sarcastic directions to Wagner for 
gaining the ear of the public : " Sitzt ihr nur 
immer ! Leimt zusammen, Braut ein Ragout von 
andrer Schmaus." The ragout which has been 
brewed in the present instance is made of bits 
taken here and there from both parts of the 
German original, stirred up with other bits pro- 
vided by the adapters. 

The intention was obviously so to improve 
upon Goethe's poem by rearrangement, omis- 
sions, and additions that the resulting " adapta- 
tion " would make an effective stage play for 
Mr. Beerbohm Tree. No one can blame Mr. 
Tree for wishing to emulate Henry Irving by 
adding a Mephisto to his achievements. As a 
stage manager he has as many " machines " and 
" prospects " as Goethe's Director, and what 
better use could he put them to than to make 
them serve him as actor in the role of the Devil? 
Reports from London confirm that neither poet 
nor actor were mistaken in their estimate of a 
new Faust as a theatrical success. 

A glance at the contents will show the method 
employed. The prologue is retained, but the 
scene is changed from the original heaven to 
" a range of mountains between Heaven and 
Earth." Mephistopheles, as the Satan of 
Scripture, makes his wager, not with the Lord, 
but with an angel " sent down from bliss." The 
divine messenger assures Mephistopheles of the 
futility of his attempts against Faust, who 
" through the woman-soul at last shall win," a 
prophecy clothed in the famous closing words 
of Part Second. At the end of the prologue 
the machines and prospects have a chance : 
Mephistopheles, amid thunder and darkness, 
" with wings outspread swoops suddenly like 
lightning downwards to the earth." 

At the beginning of Act I. Goethe is allowed 

* Faust. Freely Adapted from Goethe's Dramatic Poem. 
By Stephen Phillips and J. Comyns Carr. New York : The 
Macmillan Co. 



to have his way with some condensing and re- 
arrangement, untn after the Easter music, 
when Faust, recalled from his suicidal attempt, 
remembers that seeking the light he has not yet 
called upon darkness. He raises the sign of 
the hexagon, speaks his formula ; a flame leaps 
in the hollow of the chimney, followed by a 
vapor from which emerges the form of his future 
friend and tempter. The Easter walk and the 
poodle are thus entirely dispensed with except 
a few lines which for their poetry's sake are 
woven in here and there out of their original con- 
nection. The compact is soon made, the student 
is disposed of in a few lines, and, accompanied 
by a roll of thunder, the pait are whisked away 
to emerge in " a world of cloud and vapour." 
When the clouds have disappeared, we do not 
find the two travellers in Auerbach's Keller or 
the Witches' Kitchen, but on a ledge of rock 
looking into a deep torn fissure in the earth, in 
whose depths is the Witches' Cavern. In a 
neighboring hollow of the rock 

" 'T is said that once ere Eden's lawns had flowered 
The Mother of the Mother of the world 
Lay hidden." 

Now it serves as background for " a vision of a 
figure nearly nude and draped by the growth of 
leaves about her form, in which she seems partly 
incorporate." Faust drinks the witches' cup, 
thunder crashes, there is a blinding flash of 
lightning, after which the rejuvenated Faust 
stands forth clad in rich garments. " Mephis- 
topheles with a red glow upon his face, and the 
witch surroimded by her Attendant Apes," 
join in a wild dance, when the curtain falls. 

This analysis of the first act will serve to 
show the method of the adapters. Goethe has 
been retained where he conforms with the end 
in view ; where not, new matter has been sub- 
stituted. The purpose of the new " Faust " is 
manifestly an attempt so to simplify and unify 
the " Faust " of Goethe that it will not make 
too great a demand upon the intelligence and 
culture of the theatre-going public of to-day. 
To carry out this purpose, it was necessary to 
sacrifice the more subtle ideas of the poet's 
philosophy ; for what does the modern theatre- 
goer care about the ethical content which the 
great world-poet put into the foolish old legend ? 
It is the realism of the love story and the dia- 
hlerie which appeal to him. The Weltschmerz 
of Faust finds no echo within his breast. Hence 
the soliloquies and other passages in which Faust 
gives expression to his trouble have been either 
omitted or greatly condensed. As a result the 
role of the hero has been so much reduced that 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



189 



it serves for but little more than the occasion 
for Margaret's love and Mephisto's magic. 

The spectacular side of the adaptation can- 
not fail to satisfy the most insatiable appetite 
for " thrills." As the adapters had it in their 
power to improve the unity of the action, one 
would naturally expect a minimizing of the 
Walpurgis-nacht. But no ; here was too good 
an opportunity for carpentry and colored lights. 
The very stage directions make the reader 
shudder. There is thunder and lightning and 
a raging wind. On separate peaks witches are 
posted as sentinels, the crags and mountain tops 
are filled with shadowy forms whose voices echo 
across the gulf. Mephistopheles asks his compan- 
ion, " Would'st know my power ? " whereupon 
" the rocks have sundered and fallen. Uprooted 
trees have crashed into the abyss, and the moun- 
tain across the gulf has been so shattered as to 
leave a vast cavern in its side." Mephisto im- 
mediately finds use for the new-made cavern as a 
" Fitting stage whereon we '11 summon for thy amorous 
glance 

From out their scattered tombs those Queens of Love 

Whom Time hath still left peerless." 

Some young witches now draw Faust with 
chains of flowers to a convenient spot for be- 
holding the pageant of beauty produced for his 
benefit, — Helen of Troy, Cleopatra preceded 
by Egyptian dancing girls, and finally Messa- 
lina, " passion's ungrudging slave." Is Goethe's 
" etude in the uncanny and the gross " improved 
by this interpolation ? 

However much the lover of Goethe may 
resent these tamperings, he must admit that the 
work of Mr. PhUlips and Mr. Carr has its 
merits. The two collaborators have succeeded 
admirably with the blank verse which they have 
substituted for the original metres. Many of 
the added lines, also, have undeniable beauty, 
and a portion of the love tragedy has been ren- 
dered into prose which grips through its simple 
pathos. But is a poet of Mr. Phillips's attain- 
ments justified in laying violent hands upon one 
of the world's masterpieces in order to provide 
an ambitious actor-manager with a suitable 
vehicle for his talents? A sentence from a 
German critic concerning a recent adaptation 
of " Faust " for the stage is apropos : " Culture 
also has its commandments, and one of these is 
respect. He who does not see it and will not 
see it helps to make art the helpless plaything 
of artistic caprice, which is its destruction." All 
admirers of Goethe must regret that the cen- 
tenary of his greatest work has been marked by 
no more significant result than this English 
version. Ellen C. Hinsdale. 



Records of an Inspiring liiFE.* 

The ancients, far from asserting the essential 
equality of men, were ever prone to exalt and 
even deify possessors of the strong arm or the 
cunning brain. Whether or not modem man 
is inherently more variable than his ancestors 
of a few thousand years ago, may be a matter 
for dispute ; but for practical purposes he is so, 
social inheritance having placed in his hands 
the means of accentuating his peculiarities to an 
extraordinary degree. On the other hand, the 
spread of democracy and education, the mixing 
of peoples and the diffusion of literature, have 
had and are having an equalizing tendency 
the value of which, for good or evil, cannot yet 
be estimated. So far as human diversity has 
hitherto depended upon inequality or even dif- 
ference of opportunity or experience, it may be 
expected to decrease in the future ; so far as 
it has depended upon inborn traits, it may be 
expected to increase with the enlargement of 
the field of endeavor and the mass of material 
ready to the hand of the worker. Of these two 
tendencies, the first cannot be regarded as an 
unmixed blessing, for some of the finest fruits of 
the human mind are closely connected with the 
concentrated effects of a limited environment ; 
while the second may prove to be decreased by 
the mixing of peoples and consequent diffusion 
of special traits, or spoiled by the combination of 
incongruous elements. The recognition of the 
fact that mankind is half -unconsciously entering 
upon a gigantic experiment of uncertain outcome 
does not come from the pessimists, but from 
those ultra-optimists who are quixotic enough 
to believe that he may be led to appreciate the 
situation, and, with the aid of science, find a 
way to a successful solution. 

To those who have any measure of this faith 
or hope, the life of Lord Kelvin cannot be other- 
wise than inspiring. When ability and oppor- 
tunity combine as they did in this instance, the 
benefits to humanity may be enormous. If the 
complexity of our social relations is involving us 
in ever-increasing difficulties, we find here some 
reason to hope that Davids will be found to lay 
them low. The greatest danger is, no doubt, 
that we may not have the sense to accept their 
services. 

In the case of Lord Kelvin — or William 
Thomson, as he then was — recognition came 
early. The excellent little book before us, writ- 
ten by Kelvin's successor in the chair of Natural 
Philosophy at Glasgow, cites numerous instances 

*LoBD Kelvin. By Andrew Gray. "English Men of Sci- 
ence" Series. With portraits. New York: E. P. Dutton & Co. 



190 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



of the wonder and expectation aroused by his 
early performances. When he took his degree, 
one examiner remarked to the other (both being 
distinguished men), " You and I are just about 
fit to mend his pens." At the age of twenty- 
five he was appointed professor in the University 
of Glasgow ; we find in the book a portrait of 
him taken at this time, showing a face quite in 
keeping with the most romantic ideals of genius. 
At that time it was customary to teach the prin- 
ciples of dynamics and electricity, so far as they 
were then understood, by means of lectures; 
but the idea of experimental work had scarcely 
dawned upon the minds of the authorities. The 
apparatus was scanty and ancient, and the avail- 
able quarters wholly inadequate. It was not 
without some alarm, evidently, that the com- 
mittee of the faculty listened to the demands 
of the yoimg professor ; but he tried to be as 
reasonable as he could, while they, even in their 
official statement, could not forbear allusion to 
their "anticipations of his future celebrity." 

The ardor with which Thomson carried on 
his work was as remarkable as his genius in 
planning it. Everyone about the place was 
called upon to help, even visiting scientists from 
other institutions. As an example of his methods 
under stress of circumstances we are given the 
following. It was a question of making and 
testing certain newly invented batteries : 

" A supply of sheet lead, minium, and woollen cloth 
was at once obtained, and the whole laboratory corps of 
students and staff were set to work to manufacture sec- 
ondary batteries. A small Siemens-Halske dynamo 
was telegraphed for to charge the cells, and the ventil- 
ating steam-engine of the University was requisitioned 
to drive the dynamo during the night. Thus the Uni- 
versity stokers and engineer were put on double shifts; 
the cells were charged during the night and the charging 
current and battery-potential measured at intervals. 
Then the cells were run down during the day, and their 
output measured in the same way. Just as this began, 
Thomson was laid up with an ailment which confined 
him to bed for a couple of weeks or so; but this led to 
no cessation of the laboratory activity. On the con- 
trary, the laboratory corps was divided into two squads, 
one for the night, the other for the day, and the work 
of charging and discharging, and of measurement of 
expenditure and return of energy went on without inter- 
mission. The results obtained during the day were 
taken to Thomson's bedside in the evening, and early in 
the morning he was ready to review those which had 
been obtained during the night and to suggest further 
questions to be answered without delay." 

Another example is given in connection with 
his lecture course. 

"The closing lecture of the ordinary course was 
usually on light, and the subject which was generally the 
last to be taken up — for as the days lengthened in 
spring, it was possible sometimes to obtain sunlight for 



the experiments — was often relegated to the last day or 
two of the session. So after an hour's lecture Thomson 
would say, « As this is the last day of the session, I will 
go on for a little longer, after those who have to leave 
have gone to their classes.' Then he would resume 
after ten o'clock, and go on to eleven, when another 
opportunity would be given for students to leave, and 
the lecture would be again resumed. Messengers would 
be sent from his house, when he was wanted for busi- 
ness of different sorts, to find out what had become of 
him, and the answer brought would be, hour after hour, 
' He is still lecturing.' At last he would conclude about 
one o'clock, and gently thank the small and devoted 
band who had remained to the end, for their kind and 
prolonged attention." 

This is no place for a summary of Lord 
Kelvin's achievements, nor is it worth while to 
describe more minutely the contents of Professor 
Gray's book ; but it may be recommended as an 
excellent condensed account of the life and labors 
of one of the most remarkable men of this or 
any other time. T. D. A. Cockerell. 



Bbibfs ox New Books. 



Musical biography is a difficult task. 

ZZfJnTnl'L.o To write technically about music is 
musical genius. ,, •'. , . . , 

to render oneself unintelligible to all 
but musicians ; to attempt descriptive writing about 
musicians is to run the risk of rhapsodizing ; to try 
what may be called the emotional analysis of music 
is often to challenge ridicule. In writing the Life 
of Edward MacDowell, Mr. Lawrence Oilman con- 
fesses that, in his survey of one whose art is still of 
to-day, he has been keenly conscious of the fact that 
posterity has an inconvenient habit of reversing the 
judgments delivered upon creative artists by their 
contemporaries. It is needless to say that the crit- 
ical estimates which he has offered have been set 
down with deliberation. Edward Alexander Mac- 
Dowell ( he discarded the middle name toward the 
end of his life), was born in New York, December 
18, 1861. His artistic tendencies were inherited 
from his father, a man of genuine aesthetic instincts. 
"While but fifteen years of age he studied at the 
Paris Conservatory, under Marmontel in piano and 
under Savard in theory and composition, and later 
with Heymann at Frankfort. In 1896 his record 
as a musician and composer was such that he was 
offered the professorship of music at Columbia 
University, the committee who had the appointment 
in charge announcing the consensus of their opinion 
to be that he was " the greatest musical genius that 
America has produced." MacDowelFs ideals were 
lofty, and he dreamed of a relationship between 
university instruction and a liberal public culture 
which was not to be realized in his time. Using 
the observation more as a definition than an enco- 
mium, the author points out that throughout the 
entire body of MacDowell's work he presents the 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



191 



noteworthy spectacle of a radical without extrava- 
gance, a musician at once in accord with and de- 
tached from the dominant artistic movement of his 
day. As a corollary, Mr. Gilman says : " He had 
not the Promethean imagination, the magniloquent 
passion, that are Strauss's ; his art is far less elabo- 
rate and subtle than that of such typical moderns 
as Debussy and d'Indy. But it has an order of 
beauty that is not theirs, an order of eloquence that 
is not theirs, a kind of poetry whose secrets they do 
not know ; and there speaks through it and out of it 
an individuality that is persuasive, lovable, unique." 
MacDowell died January 23, 1908, and his remains 
are buried at his old home, Peterboro, New Hamp- 
shire. The biography is published by John Lane Co. 

A French A. dissertation for the Doctor's degree 

translator • , ■, • i.i i- r I 

of English ^^ ^O' always eminently satisfactory 
classics. when judged from the point of view 
of the general reader, but Doctor Mary Gertrude 
Cushing's thesis on Pierre Le Tourneur, published by 
the Columbia University Press (Macmillan), is one 
of the most readable contributions to literary history 
that have appeared recently. Pierre Le Tourneur 
was one of the most useful of eighteenth-century 
French writers, although he is pretty well forgotten 
now, in France as elsewhere. His versions of Young, 
Hervey, Ossian, and Shakespeare were the best fruit 
of a movement that stirred literary France to a con- 
sciousness of her great lack. French literature was 
dead, and it required an infusion of foreign blood 
to bring it to life. It is interesting to study the 
methods of a translator of two hundred years ago 
through the spectacles of this brilliant young 
" Doctoress," — his readiness to add, subtract, alter, 
his painstaking readjustment of parts, his calm con- 
fidence in the value of his work though Voltaires 
vilified and LaHarpes hooted, his patient devotion 
of a life to a rather thankless task, — for there is 
truth as well as cleverness in Miss Cushing's adapta- 
tion, "The way of the translator is hard." Le 
Tourneur's knowledge of English was far from 
perfect, as is shown by his transformation of the 
scientist Sparrman's statement (in view of his 
employment as tutor to a family who lived among 
the Hollanders at the Cape), " I had made shift to 
pick up a little German on my journey from 
Grottenburg," into " Je m'^tais attach^ avec beaucoup 
de peine un petit Allemand." However, his judg- 
ment was better than his scholarship. He knew 
what Frenchmen would read, and if his Shakespeare 
is not ours he is at least a dilution that gave his 
countrymen a taste for something more vital and 
vigorous than their native writers had been furnish- 
ing them. 

Mr. Arthur D. Howden Smith has 

A cry from • • i i- ^ e 

Macedonia. S^^^^" "^ an interesting account of 

his Macedonian experiences, under 
the title " Fighting the Turk in the Balkans " (Put- 
nam). Discussion of the merits of the Near Eastern 
Question is secondary and incidental; Mr. Smith 
has undertaken little more than to tell how he vis- 



ited Sofia last year, how he succeeded in finding 
the Revolutionary Committee which had the direc- 
tion of the insurrection in Macedonia, and in getting 
himself attached to one of the chetas — little bands 
which make sallies far into the enemy's country, 
and do duty as organizers, messengers, spies, fighters, 
as occasion demands. Mr. Smith was privileged to 
help perform all the functions mentioned, to spend 
some time in the company of Madame Tzveta Bojova, 
the Bulgarian Joan of Arc, and to get a pretty clear 
idea of the Balkan difficulty, or at least of the Bul- 
garian side of it. The little Bulgarian state, with 
a population of 4,000,000, has an army of 400,000 
men — the best fighters in southeastern Europe — 
and has succeeded in every one of her large enter- 
prises thus far : has annexed Eastern Koumelia, has 
forced Servia and Greece to keep their hands off, 
has seized the Orient Railway, and has made herself 
entirely independent of Turkey. In the meantime, 
Macedonia, of about the same population as Bul- 
garia, and for the most part of the same blood, has 
wasted her energies in trying to throw off the Otto- 
man yoke, and is in a pitiful state of misery and 
unrest. Mr. Smith found the Bulgars and Mace- 
donians a childlike, generous, and delightfully 
friendly and sympathetic people (where the Turks, 
Greeks, and Serbs are not concerned), enthusiastic 
admirers of America, and inclined to copy her in 
some directions where she is perhaps not the best of 
models — in the matter of political activities, for 
example. The story is elaborately illustrated with 
photographs, and supplemented with two excellent 
maps, one showing the whole Balkan region, and 
the other giving such a detailed view of eastern 
Macedonia as can be found in no ordinary atlas. 

There is more of hardy adventure 
and hair-breadth escape from thrill- 
ing danger in " The Life of a Fossil 
Hunter " (Holt), by Mr. Charles H. Sternberg, than 
in many an account of live-animal hunting in tropi- 
cal jungle or amid northern snows ; and the book 
also has a scientific, a paleontological, interest not 
possessed by the ordinary hunting narrative. Mr. 
Sternberg's is a name held in merited honor among 
paleontologists. Professor Osborn of the American 
Museum of Natural History calls him "the oldest 
living representative of this distinctively American 
profession" of fossil-hunting — although, it should 
be added, he is not yet much beyond the half- 
century mark, and ought, with his enthusiastic devo- 
tion to his calling, to make science still further his 
debtor than she is already. As it is the handi- 
capped that often win in the race of life, so we find 
Mr. Sternberg crippled by an unlucky fall in child- 
hood, and otherwise hampered by obstacles that 
would have dampened a less glowing ardor at the 
outset. It is the overcoming of these obstacles and 
the triumphing in spite of them that gives so human 
and absorbing an interest to his very real and event- 
ful narrative. The details of excavations in the 
chalk fields of Kansas, in the Bad Lands of the 



A hunter 
of extinct 
animals. 



192 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



Upper Cretaceous region with Professor Cope, in 
the Oregon Desert, in the Red Beds of Texas, and 
elsewhere throughout the great West, are of interest 
to the specialist and far from uninteresting to the 
general reader. By his imaginative power and his 
re-creative faculty the author makes the dead past 
of five million years ago live again, being further- 
more aided in this by the excellent " restorations " 
that mingle with the abundant photographic repro- 
ductions of fossil specimens. Many visitors to 
museums have seen his name attached to specimens 
and collections that owe their discovery and preser- 
vation to his industry. The honor of it all he rightly 
insists on enjoying, even at some sacrifice of pecu- 
niary returns in many instances. In closing his 
book the author devoutly gives thanks that he has 
" raised up a race of fossil hunters " in sturdy sons 
who will carry on his work after he is dead. 



The special merit of " Henrik Ibsen : 
mIZ^I"! The Man and his Plays " (Mitchell 

Kennerley), by Mr. Montrose J. 
Moses, is the thoroughness with which it reflects 
the recent literature of the subject. Mr. Moses has 
availed himself of pretty nearly everything acces- 
sible, and has drawn upon the vast mass of material 
with intelligent judgment, skilfully constructing for 
us a portrait of Ibsen, as the man is revealed in the 
werk of his previous biographers, in his own corre- 
spondence, and in his writings. The book is much 
fuller and better than the sketchy production of 
Mr. Gosse, and it has, of course, an advantage over 
Jaeger's standard biography in covering Ibsen's 
whole life, and in possessing the many facts that 
have come to light since his death. Ibsen is studied 
throughout the work as a product of his environ- 
ment, and the plays are shown to be logically related 
to " the conditions, both social and temperamental, 
which preceded their composition." Mr. Moses has 
also a just sense of the relative values of Ibsen's 
works, and knows perfectly well that " Brand " 
and " Peer Gynt " will be reckoned great literature 
when " Ghosts " and " A Doll Home " are only 
curiosities of the history of culture. A very large 
amount of bibliographical material is given, and 
hardly anything of importance, in the way of criti- 
cism or of translation, seems to have been missed. 
But the author has not discovered the very remark- 
able translations of Ibsen's poems by Mr. Percy 
Shedd. In connection with each of the plays, we 
have not only a bibliographical note, but also the 
chief facts about its first performance in several 
countries. Altogether, Mr. Moses has made a useful 
book, adequate in scholarship and sound in judgment. 

The belated ^^ ^f nearly fifteen years since David 

biography of a Swing died in what should be the 
great preacher, prime of a man's life, the age of 
sixty-four ; and only to-day do we have his full and 
formal biography. " David Swing : Poel^Preacher " 
(Unity Publishing Co.), from the pen of the Rev. 
Joseph Fort Newton, by its excellence as a character 



portrait goes far toward atoning for its lateness of 
appearance. The eloquent and lovable and thor- 
oughly human teacher of the multitudes that used on 
Sundays to throng Central Music Hall in Chicago 
is most engagingly presented in the fair pages of 
this attractive octavo. The comparatively humble 
origin of the man, his simple, almost Spartan-like 
upbringing, his determination to get an education in 
spite of insufficient means, his inward call to the 
ministry, a call obeyed with much diffidence and 
self-doubting, his growth in greatness of soul, and 
his final bursting of the bonds of creed and the 
trammels of dogma, — all this, and more, is well 
recounted by Mr. Newton. As a characteristic 
utterance of Professor Swing's, and as defining his 
attitude in a certain great crisis of his life, let us 
quote these words from one of his sermons : " It 
has easily come to pass that the most useless and 
forlorn men on earth have been the professional 
heresy-hunters. Living for a certain assemblage of 
words, as a miser lives for his labeled bags of gold, 
they have always left their souls to go dressed in 
rags and to die of famine in sight of the land of 
milk and honey." To readers of The Dial, at 
least to its older readers, Swing as a writer is no 
stranger ; some of his best essays, notably that on 
Dante, first appeared in its columns. The life and 
work of a man who, as his biographer observes, may 
fairly be classed with Beecher and Phillips Brooks, 
cannot be lacking in human and spiritual interest. 
Mr. Newton has well filled a gap in our biographical 
literature. 

We are told by Sister Nivedita (Miss 
S'^fndut^. Margaret E. Noble), the compUer 

and narrator of " Cradle-Tales of 
Hinduism " (Longmans), that we are here offered a 
collection of genuine Indian nursery tales, and that 
in bringing them together she has "preferred the 
story received by word of mouth to that found in 
the books." The stories are the old, old tales of 
Hinduism — those of the Mahabharata, the Bhagavat 
Purana, and the Ramayana. Some come from less 
lofty sources, and are really popidar village tales. 
All exhibit the wildest Indian fancy and reflect the 
Hindu psychology. A cycle of ten Krishna stories 
perhaps represents the narrator at her best. Through 
all the stories there runs a strain of sadness and a 
certainty of impending doom. Figure after figure 
comes upon the scene to play an automatic part only 
to suffer a destined fate. Sister Nivedita is partic- 
ularly impressible to this fatalistic note, and over- 
emphasizes it in her work — by selection, indeed, 
rather than by magnification. The collection is 
good and the stories are well narrated, though Sister 
Nivedita continues ever on the same minor strain, 
never rising to heights of passion or sinking to 
depths of despair. Notwithstanding her sympathy, 
her contact with the Indian life, and her native 
helpers, she never loses herself in the story ; she is 
always outside of it, conscious of the part of narrator, 
always looking at her tale as a curio to be studied or 
a parable with a meaning. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



193 



at..^^t ^„.,. „, Dr. David M. R. Culbreth, an alum- 

Stuaent days at » i xt • • e tt- • • i 

the University nus of the University of Virginia, has 
of Virginia. written an interesting account of his 
life as a student at the University, with sympathetic 
personal sketches of the members of the faculty 
during the period of his attendance — 1872—7. 
The volume is published, with a number of illustra- 
tions, by the Neale Publishing Co., Washington, 
D. C. It is a good sign when a graduate of an 
institution of learning preserves so long his affection 
and loyalty toward his alma mater. It is evident 
that the author of this book fully imbibed the spirit 
of the university, which has been tersely character- 
ized by one of its most distinguished alumni, the 
late Bishop Dudley, as "thoroughness and honor." 
In these days of depreciation of an old-fashioned 
collegiate education and the exaltation of material 
pursuits, it is refreshing to turn back to these rec- 
ords of over a quarter of a century ago. The early 
chapters give an account of the founding of the 
university by Thomas Jefferson, whose " lengthened 
shadow " is still seen in its organization, although 
aliquantum mutatus ah illo. A series of such vol- 
umes would give opportunity for a comparative 
history of educational institutions, and would be a 
valuable contribution to the history of education in 
this country. 



BRIEFER MENTION. 



The Macmillan Co. publish " A Commentary on the 
Holy Bible by Various Writers," under the editorship 
of the Rev. J. R. Dummelow. This is a single-volume 
work of more than a thousand pages, with an extensive 
list of contributors from both sides of the water. It 
gives us a series of about thirty essays of a general 
character, which precede the commentary proper. A 
few maps are furnished, but no other illustrations. This 
work is published at a very moderate price, and should 
prove widely useful to clergymen, teachers, and the 
laity. 

" Utopian Papers," edited by Miss Dorothea HoUins, 
comes to us from Messrs. Masters & Co., London. It 
is a collection of nine popular essays having for their 
common purpose the discovery of " the resources of con- 
temporary science and hterature, art and religion, avail- 
able for the regeneration of our cities and their inhab- 
itants." Among the titles are " Sir Thomas More 
Redivivus," "Chelsea, Past and Present," "Comte's 
View of the Future of Society," " Goethe," and " Indian 
Thought." The papers are really lectures given before 
" the Utopians," a small group of ardent souls assembled 
in Chelsea. 

Something over a year ago, a course of twenty-one 
pubUc lectures was given by members of the faculty of 
Columbia University, each lecture being the effort of a 
specialist to present in non-technical language the pres- 
ent status and the outlook of his own department of 
knowledge. These lectures were published separately 
in pamphlet form, and were thus given a considerable 
circulation. A limited number of sets of these lectures 
have now been bound together, making an imposing 
volimie which should find its place in many libraries. 



Their subjects cover the chief fields of science, history, 
and philosophy, and the treatment is made attractive 
without too great a concession to the tastes of a popular 
audience. Among the more notable lectures are the 
" Mathematics " of Professor Keyser, the " Biology " 
of Professor Wilson, the " History " of Professor Rob- 
inson, the " Jurisprudence " of Professor Smith, the 
" Philosophy " of President Butler, and the " Sociology " 
of Professor Giddings. 

A recent addition to the Messrs, Scribners' " Draw- 
ings of the Great Masters" series illustrates the draughts- 
manship of Antoine Watteau. A critical foreword by 
M. Octave Uzanne points out the masterly quality of 
the drawings, besides characterizing the finished work 
of this matchless painter of coquetry, frivolity, enchant- 
ment, — belonging half to eighteenth century France and 
half to fairyland. There are fifty full-page drawings, 
chosen from the collection in the Louvre and the Brit- 
ish museum, reproduced in tint. 

A unique supplementary reader is offered by the 
American Book Company, under the title " Chinese Fa- 
bles and Folk Stories." Miss Mary Hayes Davis un- 
earthed and translated the stories, with some assistance 
from the Rev. Chow Leung; thereby upsetting the ac- 
cepted theory that the Chinese had no fables. An intro- 
duction by the professor of the Chinese language at 
Chicago University attests to Miss Davis's right to the 
honor of having discovered the Chinese fable to the 
Western world. 

Under the skilled editorship of Mr. A. T. Quiller- 
Couch, the Oxford University Press has begun publi- 
cation of a " Select English Classics " series, intended 
primarily, we suppose, for school use. The first titles 
to be issued, some twenty-five in number, range over 
the whole field of English literature, each book consist- 
ing of thirty-two or forty-eight pages of selections from 
a single writer, with a brief introduction in which Mr. 
Quiller-Couch manages to say the necessary things in an 
interesting way, without intruding the obvious. Liter- 
ature in tabloid form was never made more attractive 
than in this series. 

Charles Wells was born in London in the last year 
of the eighteenth century. He died in 1879, at Mar- 
seilles. At the age of twenty-four he wrote, and pub- 
lished pseudonymously, a poem entitled " Joseph and 
his Brethren: A Scriptural Drama." This is not a 
taking title, and it is not surprising that the public paid 
slight attention to a book thus named. Many years 
later, it was rediscovered by three men whose opinions 
counted: namely, by Rossetti, Mr. Theodore Watts, and 
Mr. Swinburne. They insisted that it was a great poem, 
and Mr. Swinburne wrote of it in terms of glowing 
praise in " The Fortnightly Review " of 1875. The 
next year, the aged author had the satisfaction of see- 
ing his work in a new edition, with Mr. Swinburne's 
essay. Somehow this edition found purchasers enough 
to exhaust it, and of late years the book has been hard 
to procure. The poem now comes to its own (whatever 
that may prove to be) by reproduction as a volume of 
the « World's Classics " of Mr. Henry Frowde. By 
way of prefatory matter, we are given Mr. Swinburne's 
essay, and some forty pages of mixed gossip and criti- 
cism, entitled " Rossetti and Charles Wells : A Remin- 
iscence of Kelmscott Manor," by Mr. Watts-Dunton. 
All of these features, to say nothing of the poem itself, 
certainly make a sufficiently generous shilling's worth 
of the book. 



194 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



Notes. 



A new novel by " Frank Danby," author of " The 
Heart of a Child " and "Pigs in Clover," will be pub- 
lished next month by the Macmillan Co. 

The " Republic of Plato," in a new translation by Mr. 
A. D. Lindsay, is published in an attractively-printed 
edition by Messrs. E. P. Dutton & Co. 

We are glad to note that the late Francis Thomp- 
son's eloquent essay on Shelley, originally published in 
" The Dublin Review," will be given permanent form in 
a volume soon to be issued by the Messrs. Scribner. 

A new volume of essays by Mr. James Huneker, to 
be called " Egoists," and to include studies of such men 
as Huysman, Anatole France, Max Stirner, etc., is one 
of the most interesting of the Messrs. Scribners' an- 
nouncements. 

"A Satchel Guide for the Vacation Tourist in Europe" 
is known to all travellers. The edition for 1909, pub- 
lished by the Houghton Mifflin Co., is the thirty-eighth 
annual reincarnation of this usefid book, edited of late 
years by Dr. W. J. Rolfe. 

An " Introduction to Poetry " for the use of schoools 
is annomiced by Messrs. Henry Holt & Co. The au- 
thor is Professor Raymond M. Alden of Stanford Uni- 
versity, whose "Specimens of English Verse" has been 
long and favorably known in our colleges. 

The lectures which Professor J. P. Mahaffy deliv- 
ered late in 1908 and early in 1909 at the Lowell In- 
stitute in Boston have been brought together into a vol- 
ume entitled "What Have the Greeks Done for Civili- 
zation?" and will be published by Messrs. G. P. Putnam's 
Sons shortly. 

Dr. William Ellery Leonard has done a notable ser- 
vice to classical literature by publishing " The Fragments 
of Empedocles " in acceptable English verse, accompa- 
nied by the original text. He provides an introduction, 
a bibliography, and some twenty-five pages of notes. 
This work comes from the Open Court Publishing Co. 

Besides the long-delayed volume on Geofroy Tory, 
the Houghton Mifflin Company plan to issue this Spring 
in their " Riverside Special Editions " a reprint of Wal- 
ton's " Compleat Angler," embodying some unique fea- 
tures, and a collection of contemporary records of the 
great Boston fire of 1872, to be edited by Mr, Harold 
Murdock. 

Mr. DeMorgan writes his publisher, Mr. Holt, that 
he is still busily at work on the manuscript of his new 
novel which has been announced as " Blind Jim," al- 
though he himself does not care for this title, and will 
probably change to " It Never Can Happen Again." Mr. 
DeMorgan says it will be longer than " Joseph Vance " 
or " Somehow Good." 

"A Library Encyclopaedia," to be issued by subscrip- 
tion, will, if the plan meets with enough encouragement, 
be edited by Mr. Alexander Philip of the Gravesend 
(England) Public Library. The various articles will 
be written by " only the foremost authorities," it is an- 
nounced; and if the prospectus proves to be sufficiently 
inviting to the library world, the work will make its 
appearance at the end of this year. 

John Boyd Thacher, formerly a member of the Im ew 
York State Senate, and Mayor of Albany, died in that 
city February 25, at the age of sixty-one. He was born 
in Balston and was a graduate of Williams College. 
He was a collector of autographs, rare books, and his- 



torical manuscripts. His published works include " The 
Continent of America: Its Discovery and Its Baptism," 
"Charlecote; or. The Trial of William Shakespeare," 
" Little Speeches," " The Cabotian Discovery," « Chris- 
topher Colimibus: His Life, His Work, His Remains," 
and " Outlines of the French Revolution Told in Auto- 
graphs." 

Dr. William Bradley Otis's critical study of « Amer- 
ican Verse, 1625-1807," to be issued at once by Messrs. 
Moffat, Yard & Co., is based upon a careful investigation 
of the original editions in all the older American libra- 
ries, and much of its material has never before been 
mentioned in any history or bibliography of American 
verse. The book will contain an exhaustive bibliog- 
raphy and a careful index. 

A volume entitled " Characters and Events of Roman 
History," by Professor Guglielmo Ferrero, is annoimced 
by the Messrs. Putnam. The book consists of a series 
of studies of the great men and women of ancient Rome, 
and of critical moments and events in Roman history. 
These studies were originally deUvered as lectures at 
the Lowell Institute in Boston, at Columbia University 
in New York, and at the University of Chicago. 

James A. Le Roy, secretary to William H. Taft in 
the Philippines, and later American consul at Durango, 
Mexico, died February 28, in the military hospital at 
Fort Bayard, New Mexico. Mr. Le Roy contributed 
numerous articles to the periodical press on matters re- 
lating to the Philippines. He was an occasional con- 
tributor to The Dial, the present issue containing one 
of the last products of his pen. 

A rare old periodical, " The Southern Literary Mes- 
senger," which reflected the literary life of the South 
from 1834 to 1864, has recently been added, in a com- 
plete set, to the library of the University of Texas, 
through the generosity of Mr. H. P. Hilliard of St. Louis. 
Few libraries and still fewer book-dealers can now point 
to a full set of this interesting old magazine on their 
shelves, and the institution at Austin is justified in tak- 
ing pride in this acquisition. 

Popular editions of Marlowe and Ben Jonson, uni- 
form with " The Shakespeare Apocrypha " which Mr. 
C. F. Tucker Brooke recently edited, are announced by 
the Oxford University Press. The " Marlowe " is being 
edited by Mr. Tucker Brooke and Professor Walter 
Raleigh, and the "Jonson" (which will, of course, fill 
more than one volume) by Mr. Percy Simpson. As 
already known, a library edition of Ben Jonson's Works, 
edited by Professor C. H. Herford and Mr. Percy Simp- 
son, has been in preparation at Oxford for some time. 

A recent English note announcing that Mr. John Mur- 
ray was to undertake a " Life of the Honorable Mrs. 
Norton," by Miss Alice Perkins, is American news by 
way of London, for Miss Perkins is a New Yorker, and 
after she had offered this manuscript to Messrs. Henry 
Holt & Co. they arranged to publish it jointly with Mr. 
Murray. Mrs. Norton, the author of " Kathleen Mav- 
ourneen," was a granddaughter of Sheridan, and with her 
sisters. Lady Dufferin and the Duchess of Somerset, 
made up the " three graces " of Georgian society. 

The Committee in charge of the Lincoln Centenary 
Celebration in Chicago have arranged with Messrs. 
A. C. McClurg & Co. to bring out immediately in book 
form the more important addresses delivered during 
the Centenary Week. The material will be prepared 
under the supervision of Mr. N. W. MacChesney, 
Chairman of the Lincoln Centenary Committee, and 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



195 



the volume will be illustrated with portraits of the 
distinguished speakers, photographs of the Lincoln 
Monuments in Chicago, and reproductions of the bronze 
plaques placed in the Chicago schools in commemora- 
tion of the Centenary. The book can hardly fail to 
prove both interesting and valuable. 

The Rev. Dr. Theodore Ledyard Cuyler, well-known 
as a Presbyterian clergyman and as a writer, died on 
February 26 at his Brooklyn home, in his eighty-eighth 
year. He was a graduate of Princeton College and of 
the Princeton Theological Seminary, and from 1860 to 
1890 was pastor of the Lafayette Avenue Presbyterian 
Church in the city where he died. He was prominent 
in public life, and, in 1856, helped to organize the 
Republican party. He. was an indefatigable contrib- 
utor to the periodical press, and the author of a long 
list of books. 

The London " Spectator " was one of the earliest mag- 
azines to carry general advertising, and the recent pur- 
chase of a complete file by Harvard University has 
enabled Mr. Lawrence Lewis to make an interesting 
study of this advertising, in a book to be published by 
Houghton Mifflin Company this Spring. The volume 
is called "The Advertisements of the Spectator: Being 
a study of the Literature, History and Manners of Queen 
Anne's England as they are reflected therein, as well 
as an illustration of the Origins of the Art of Adver- 
tising, with an Appendix of representative Advertise- 
ments now for the first time reprinted." 



Announcements of Spring Books. 



The Dial's annual list of books announced for Spring 
publication, herewith presented, forms an interesting epitome 
of American publishing activities for the present Spring and 
coming Summer. All the books here listed are presumably 
new books — new editions not being included unless having 
new form or matter. The omission from the present list of 
any prominent publishers in the regular trade is due solely to 
the fact that such publishers failed to respond to our requests 
for data regarding their Spring books. 



BIOGRAPHY AND REMINISCENCES. 

The Life of Joan of Arc, by Anatole France, trans, by 
Winifred Stephens, 2 vols., illus., $8. net. — The Mak- 
ing of Carlyle, by R. S. Craig, illus., $4. net. — Maria 
Edgeworth and her Circle in the Days of Bonaparte 
and Bourbon, by Constance Hill, illus., $6. net. — 
Ladies Fair and Frail, slretches of the demi-monde 
during the eighteenth century, by Horace Bleackley, 
with portraits reproduced from contemporary sources, 
$5. net. — The Love Affairs of Napoleon, by Joseph 
Turquan, trans, from the French by James L. May, 
illus., $5. net. — Thomas Hood, his life and times, by 
Walter Jerrold, illus., $5. net. — A Sister of Prince 
Rupert, Elizabeth Princess Palatine Abbess of Here- 
ford, by Elizabeth Godfrey, illus., $4. net. — C6sar 
Franck, a study, trans, from the French of Vincent 
d'Indy, with introduction by Rosa Newmarch, $2.50 
net. — The Life of St. Francis of Assist, by Giro Alvl, 
trans, from the Italian, $1.50 net. (John Lane Co.) 

Life of Edgar Allan Poe, including his correspondence 
with men of letters, by George E. Woodberry, 2 vols., 
illus., $5. net. — Autobiography of Nathaniel South- 
gate Shaler, with a supplementary Memoir by his 
wife, illus. — Life, Letters, and Journals of George 
Ticknor ; new illustrated edition, with introduction 
by Ferris Greenslet, 2 vols. (Houghton Mifflin Co.) 

Old Friends, by William Winter, illus., $3. net. (Moffat, 
Yard & Co,) 

Life and Times of Laurence Sterne, by Wilbur L. Cross, 
illus. — English Men of Lettefs, American series, new 
vol. : Walt Whitman, by George R. Carpenter, 75 cts. 
net. — Robert Y. Hayne and his Times, by Theodore D. 
Jervey, illus. (Macmillan Co.) 

My Story, by Hall Calne, illus., $2. net. — The Princesse 
de Lamballe, by B. C. Hardy, $3.50 net. (D. Apple- 
ton & Co.) 



Great Actors of the Eighteenth Century, by Karl Mant- 
zius, illus., $3.50 net. — French Men of Letters series, 
new vol. : Charles Augustin Sainte-Beuve, by George 
McLean Harper, with portrait, $1.50 net. (J. B. 
Lippincott Co.) 

Robespierre and the French Revolution, by Charles F. 
Warwick, illus. from rare engravings, $2.50 net. — 
American Crisis Series, new vols. : Stonewall Jackson, 
by Henry Alexander White ; John Brown, by W. B. 
Burghardt DuBois ; each with frontispiece portrait, 
$1.25 net. (George W. Jacobs & Co.) 

Life of Mary Baker G. Eddy and the History of Christian 
Science, by Georgine Milmlne, $2. net. — Little Master- 
pieces of Autobiography, edited by George lies, 6 vols., 
with photogravure frontispiece, $4.50 net. (Double- 
day, Page & Co.) 

Life and Letters of Lord Macaulay, by Sir Otto Tre- 
velyan, enlarged and complete edition, Including Ma- 
caulay's Marginal Notes, in 2 vols., $5. ; In one vol., 
$2. (Harper & Brothers.) 

Memoir of George Howard Wilkinson, Bishop of St. An- 
drews, by Arthur James Mason, 2 vols., with portrait. 
— Historical Letters and Memoirs of Scottish Catho- 
lics, 1625-1793, by W. Forbes Leith, 2 vols., illus.— 
The Curious Case of Lady Purbeck, a scandal of the 
XVIIth century, by the author of "The Life of Sir 
Konelm Digby." (Longmans, Green, & Co.) 

Fair Women at Fontainebleau, by Frank Hamel, with 
portraits, $3.50 net. — Fresh Fields and Green Pas- 
tures, by Mrs. Panton, $3.50 net. — Nietzsche, his life 
and work, by M. A. Miigge, with etched portrait, $3. 
net. (Brentano's.) 

Queen Anne and her Court, by P. F. William Ryan, 2 
vols., illus., $6. net. (E. P. Dutton & Co.) 

Some Eminent Victorians, by J. Comyns Carr, Illus., $3.50 
net. — The Sisters of Napoleon, by W. R. H. Trowbridge, 
Illus., $3.75 net. (Charles Scrlbner's Sons.) 

George Borrow, by R. A. J. Walling, with frontispiece, 
$1.75 net. (Cassell & Co.) 

Life of Lincoln, by Henry C. Whitney, edited by Marion 
Mills Miller, 2. vols., with portraits, $2.50 net. 
(Baker & Taylor Co.) 

Grover Cleveland, the Man, by Jesse Lynch Williams, 
illus., 50 cts. net. (Dodd, Mead & Co.) 

HISTORY. 

History of the City of New York, by Mrs. Schuyler Van 
Rensselaer, 2 vols. — Statistical and Chronological 
History of the United States Navy, by Robert W. 
Neeser, 2 vols. — Stories from American History, new 
vol. — The Story of the Great Lakes, by Edward Chan- 
ning and Marion F. Lansing, illus., $1.50. — History 
of the State of Washington, by Edmond S. Meany. — 
Social Life at Rome in the Age of Cicero, by W. 
Warde Fowler, with maps and plans. — The Roman 
Assemblies, by George W. Botsford. — History of the 
New Testament Times in Palestine, by Shaiier Math- 
ews, new revised edition. (Macmillan Co.) 

Original Narratives of Early American History, new voL : 
Narratives of New Netherland, edited by J. F. Jame- 
son, with maps and fac-simile reproductions, $3. net. — 
A History of Egypt, by James Henry Breasted, new 
edition revised and enlarged, illus. and with new and 
improved maps, $5. net. — Siena, the story of a mediae- 
val commune, by Ferdinand Schevlll, illus., $2.50 net. 
— History of Centemporary Civilization, by Charles 
Selgnobos, trans, by A. H. Wilde, $1.25 net. — France 
since Waterloo, by W. Grington Berry, illus., $1.50 
net. (Charles Scrlbner's Sons.) 

New Light on Ancient Egypt, by G. Maspero, $4. net. 
(D. Appleton & Co.) 

The Story of New Netherland, by William Elliot Grlffls, 
illus., $1.25 net. — Our Naval War with France, by 
Gardner W. Allen, illus., $1.50 net. (Houghton Mif- 
flin Co.) 

The Romance of American Expansion, by H. Addin^ton 
Bruce, illus., $1.50 net. — The Apprenticeship of Wash- 
ington, by George Hodges, $1.25 net. (Moffat, Yard 
& Co.) 

Progressive Pennsylvania, by James M. Swank, $5. net. — 
The Third French Republic, by Frederick Lawton, 
illus., $3.50 net. (J. B. Lippincott Co.) 

The Foundations of the Nineteenth Century, by Houston 
S. Chamberlain, trans, from the German by John 
Lees, with introduction by Lord Redesdale, 2 vols., 
$8. net. (John Lane Co.) 

The Huguenots, Catherine de Medici and Philip the Sec- 
ond, 1559-76, by James Westfall Thompson. (Uni- 
versity of Chicago Press.) 

Romances of the French Revolution, by 6. Lenotre, 2 
vols., Illus., $6. net. (Brentano's.) 

The Statesmanship of Andrew Jackson, as shown In his 
writings and speeches, collected and edited by Francis 
Newton Thorpe, $2.50. (Tandy-Thomas Co.) 

The Death of Lincoln, by Clara E. Laughlin, illus., $1.50 
net. (Doubleday, Page & Co.) 



196 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



Political History of England, by various authors, under 
editorship of William Hunt and Reginald Lane Poole, 
12 vols., Vol. IX., 1702 to 1760, by I. S. Leadam, 
with Index and maps, $2.60 net. — Ireland under the 
Stuarts and during the Interregnum, by Richard Bag- 
well, Vols. I. and II., 1603-1660, with maps. (Long- 
mans, Green, & Co.) 

GENERAL LITERATURE. 

The Love Letters of Thomas Carlyle and Jane Welsh, 
edited by Alexander Carlyle, 2 vols., with portraits, 
$8. net. — The Last Journals of Horace Walpole, being 
his memoirs of the reign of George III. from 1771 to 
1783, edited, with Introduction, by A. Francis Steuart, 
2 vols., with portraits reproduced from contemporary 
pictures, $7. net. — The Journal of John Mayne during 
a Tour on the Continent upon its Re-opening after the 
Fall of Napoleon, 1814, edited by John Mayne Colles, 
illus., $4. net. — William Shakespeare, player, play- 
maker, and poet, a reply to George Greenwood, by 
H. C. Beeching, $1. net. — The Shakespeare Problem, 
Canon Beeching answered, a rejoinder to Canon 
Beeching and others, by George Greenwood, $1. net. 
(John Lane Co.) 
Some Acrostic Signatures of Francis Bacon, Baron Veru- 
1am of Verulam, Viscount St. Alban, together with 
some others, now for the first time deciphered by 
William Stone Booth, illus. with facsimiles and acros- 
tic figures, $6. net. — The People at Play, by RoUin 
Lynde Hartt, illus. and decorated by the author. — 
My Cranford, a phase of the quiet life, by Arthur 
Gilman, $1.25 net. — Shakespeare and his Critics, by 
Chai'les F. Johnson, $1.50 net. — The Advertisements 
of "The Spectator," by Lawrence Lewis, with intro- 
duction by George L. Klttredge. (Houghton Mifflin 
Co.) 
Piccadilly to Pall Mall, by Ralph Nevill and Charles B. 
Jerningham, illus. in photogravure, $3.50 net. — Plays, 
Acting, and Music, by Arthur Symons, new revised 
edition, $2. net. — The Romantic Movement in English 
Poetry, by Arthur Symons. — Wisdom of the East 
series, new vol. : The Confessions of Al Ghazzali, 
trans, from the Persian into English for the first 
time by Claud Field, 40 cts. net. — English Library, 
new vol. : Stories of Libraries and Book Collecting, by 
Ernest A. Savage, 75 cts. net. (E. P. Button & Co.) 
Shelley, by Francis Thompson, $1. net. — Egoists, a book 
of supermen, by James Huneker, $1.50 net. (Charles 
Scrlbner's Sons.) 
Peace and Happiness, by Lord Avebury, $1.50 net. — The 
Playhouse and the Play, by Percy MacKaye. — The 
Oldest English Epic, by Francis B. Gummere. — The 
Ancient Greek Historians, by J. B. Bury. (Macnail- 
lan Co.) 
The Springs of Helicon, a study in the progress of En- 
glish poetry from Chaucer to Milton, by J. W. 
Mackall. — Prophecy and Poetry, studies in Isaiah 
and Browning, by Arthur Rogers, $1.25 net. (Long- 
mans, Green, & Co.) 
Post-Augustan Poets, by H. E. Butler. — Earlier Latin 
Poets, including the Augiistans, by Nowell Smith. 
(Oxford University Press.) 
Studies in Several Literatures, by Harry Thurston Peck, 
$1.20 net. — Culture by Self-Help, in a literary, aca- 
demic, or an oratorical career, by Robert Waters, 
$1.20 net. (Dodd, Mead & Co.) 
French Literature, by A. K. Konta, $2. net. — German 
Literature, by Thomas Calvin, $1.75 net. — Essays, by 
G. Stanley Hall, $1.50 net. — Our Village, by Joseph 
C. Lincoln, $1.50 net. (D. Appleton & Co.) 
American Verse, 1625-1807, by William Bradley Otis, 
$1.75 net. — Nature's Help to Happiness, by John War- 
ren Achorn, 50 cts. net. (Moffat, Yard & Co.) 
The Paradise or Garden of the Holy Fathers, being his- 
tories of the anchorites, recluses, coenobites, monks, 
and ascetic fathers of the deserts of Egypt between 
A. D. CCL. and A. D. CCCC, compiled by Athanasius, 
Archbishop of Alexandria ; Palladlus, Bishop of Hel- 
enopolis ; Saint Jerome and others ; trans, out of the 
Syriac, with notes and introduction, by Ernest A. 
Wallis Budge, 2 vols., with frontispiece reproductions 
from the Syriac MS., $4. net. — New Mediffival Library, 
new vols. : Early English Romances of Love, edited 
in modern English, with introduction and notes, by 
Edith Rickert ; Early English Romances of Friendship, 
edited in modern English, with Introduction and notes, 
by Edith Rickert ; each illus. by photogravures after 
illuminations in contemporary MSS., per vol., $2. 
net. (Duffleld & Co.) 
Three Plays of Shakespeare, by Algernon Charles Swin- 
burne, 75 cts. net. (Harper & Brothers.) 
Little People, by Richard Whiteing, $1.50 net. (Cassell 

& Co.) 
Making the Most of Ourselves, talks for young people, 
by Calvin Dill Wilson, second series, $1. — True Man- 
hood, by James, Cardinal Gibbons, 50 cts. net. (A. C. 
McClurg & Co.) 



The Perfect Wagnerlte, a commentary on the Ring of 
the Nlblungs, by G. Bernard Shaw, new edition, with 
new introduction, $1.25. — The Wisdom Series, new 
vols. : The Wisdom of Walt Whitman, edited by 
Laurens Maynard, $1. net. (Brentano's.) 

Why We Love Lincoln, by James Creelman, $1.25 net. 
(Outing Publishing Co.) 

The Poetry of Jesus, by Edwin Markham, $1.20 net. 
(Doubleday, Page & Co.) 

The Works of James Buchanan, collected and edited by 
John Bassett Moore, 12 vols.. Vol. VI., $5. net. (J. 
B. Llpplncott Co.) 

POETRY AND THE DRAMA. 

Artemis to Actseon, and other verse, by Edith Wharton, 
$1. net. — Semlramls, and other plays, by Olive Tllford 
Dargan, $1. net. — Artemlslon, idylls and songs, by 
Maurice Hewlett, $1. net. (Charles Scrlbner's Sons.) 
The Blue Bird, a fairy play in five acts, by Maurice 
Maeterlinck, trans, by Alexander Teixelra de Mattos, 
$1.20 net. — Towards the Light, by Princess Mary 
Karadja, 50 cts. net. (Dodd, Mead & Co.) 
When Lincoln Died, and other poems, by Edward W. " 
Thomson, $1.25 net. — The Great Divide, by William 
Vaughn Moody, $1. net. — The Faith Healer, bv Will- 
iam Vaughn Moody, $1. net. (Houghton Mifflin Co.) 
Lincoln, a centenary ode, by Percy MacKaye, 75 cts. — 
The Melting Pot, by Israel Zangwlll, $1. net. (Mac- 
millan Co.) 
New Poems, by Richard Le Gallienne, $1.50. — Songs from 
the Garden of Kama, by Laurence Hope, illus., $3. 
net. — The Book of Living Poets, by Walter Jerrold, 
$2.50 net. — Champlaln, a drama in three acts, by 
J. M. Harper, $1.75 net. — Carmlna, by Thomas A. 
Daly, $1. net. (John Lane Co.) 
Poems, by William Winter, author's edition, with frontis- 
piece, $3. net ; limited large paper edition, $15. net. 
(Moffat, Yard & Co.) 
The Blue and the Gray, by F. M. Finch, with introduc- 
tion by Andrew W. White, $1.30 net.— Salvage, by 
Owen Seaman, $1.25 net. (Henry Holt & Co.) 
The Admirable Bashvllle, a play founded on the author's 
novel, "Cashel Byron's Profession," with a note on 
Prizefighting, by G. Bernard Shaw, 50 cts. net. 
(Brentano's.) 
The World's Triumph, by Louis James Block, $1.25 net. — 
Day Dreams of Greece, by Charles Wharton Stork, 
75 cts. net. (J. B. Llpplncott Co.) 
Star-Glow and Song, by Charles Buxton Going, $1.20 
net. — Rubaiyat of Bridge, by Carolyn Wells, illus. in 
color, $1. (Harper & Brothers.) 
The Magic Casement, a book of fairy poems, selected and 
arranged, with Introduction and notes, by Alfred 
Noyes, Illus., $2. net. (E. P. Dutton & Co.) 
Our Benny, by Mary B. Waller, $1. net. (Little, Brown, 

& Co.) 
Love, Faith and Endeavor, by Harvey Carson Grumbine, 
$1. net. — St. Peter, by Richard Arnold Greene, $1. 
net. — A Motley Jest, by Oscar Fay Adams, $1. net. 
(Sherman. French & Co.) 

FICTION. 

The Story of Thyrza, bv Alice Brown, with frontispiece 
in color. $1.35 net. — Dragon's Blood, by Henry Mllner 
Rldeout, Illus. In color, $1.20 net.— Gambolling with 
Galatea, a pleasant pastoral of Beauty and her Beasts, 
by Curtis Dunham, illus. in color, $1.15 net. — On the 
Road to Arden, by Margaret Morse, illus., $1. net.-— 
A Lincoln Conscript, by Homer Greene, illus., $1.50. 
— Through Welsh Doorways, by Jeannette Marks, 
illus. in tint, $1.10 net. (Houghton Mifflin Co.) 

The Chippendales, by Robert Grant, $1.50.— The White 
Mice, by Richard Harding Davis, illus. $1.50.— Mr. 
Justice Raffles, by E. W. Hornung, $1.50.— The King 
of Arcadia, by Francis Lynde, illus., $1.50.— In the 
Wake of the Green Banner, by Eugene Paul Metour, 
illus., $1.50. — The Lodger Overhead, and others, by 
Charles Belmont Davis, illus., $1.50.— The Butler s 
Story, by Arthur Train, illus., $1.25. — "This, My Son,' 
by Rene Bazln, $1.25. (Charles Scrlbner's Sons.) 

The White Sister, by F. Marlon Crawford, $1.50.— A new 
novel, by Gertrude Atherton, $1.50.— Jimbo, by Alger- 
non Blackwood, $1.25 net.— The Three Brothers, by 
Eden Phillpotts, $1.50. — The Straw, by Rina Ramsay, 
$1.50. — Poppea of the Post Office, by the author of 
"The Garden of a Communter's Wife," $1.50. (Mac- 
millan Co.) 

Aramlnta, by J. C. Snaith, $1.50.— The Black Cross, by 
Olive M. Briggs, with frontispiece in color by Ivan- 
owski, $1.50.— The Black Flier, by Edith Macvane, 
with frontispiece in color, $1.50.— The Ring and the 
Man, by Cyrus Townsend Brady, illus., $1.50. — ine 
Plotting of Frances Ware, by James Locks, with 
frontispiece In color, $1.50.— The Diary of a Show 
Girl, by Grace Luce Irwin, illus., $1.— Father Abra- 
ham, by Ida Tarbell, 50 cts. net. (Moffat, Yard & Co.) 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



197 



The Bronze Bell, by Louis Joseph Vance, illus. in color, 
$1.50. — The Glass House, by Florence Morse Kingsley, 
Illus., $1.50. — The Hands of Compulsion, by Amelia 
E. Barr, with frontispiece, $1.50. — Kingsmead, by 
Bettina von Hutten, with frontispiece in color, $1.50. 
— The Pulse of Life, by Mrs. Belloc Lowndes, $1.50. — 
The Royal End, by Henry Harland, $1.50. — The Girl 
and the Bill, bv Bannister Merwin, illus. in color, 
$1.50 — The Whirl, by Foxcroft Davis, illus. in color, 
$1.50. — The Music Master, by Charles Klein, illus. in 
color, $1.50. — The Alternative, by George Barr Mc- 
Cutcheon, illus. in color, $1.25. — Out In the Open, a 
study in temperament, by Lucas Malet, illus., $1.25.— 
The Hand on the Latch, by Mary Cholmondeley, illus., 
$1.25. (Dodd, Mead & Co.) 

Simeon Tetlow's Shadow, by Jennette Lee, with frontis- 
piece, $1.50. — The Wiles of Sexton Maginnis, by 
Maurice Francis Egan, illus., $1.50. — Mr. Opp, by 
Alice Hegan Rice, illus., $1. — Old Lady Number 31, 
by Louise Forsslund, $1. — Merely Players, stories of 
stage folk, by Virginia Tracy, $1.50. (Century Co.) 

With the Night Mail, by Rudyard Kipling, illus. in color, 
$1. net. — Roads of Destiny, by O. Henry, $1.50. — The 
Good One, by Miriam Michelson, illus. in color, $1.50. 
— Daphne in Fitzroy Street, by E. Nesbit, with front- 
ispiece in color, $1.50. — The Kingdom of Earth, by 
Anthony Partridge, illus., $1.50. — The Master, by Irv- 
ing Bacheller, $1.50. — The Climber, by E. F. Benson, 
with frontispiece in tint, $1.40 net. — The Cords of 
Vanity, by James Branch Cabell, with frontispiece in 
color, $1.50. — The Patience of John Morland, by Mary 
Dillon, illus. in color, $1.50. — Salvator, by Perceval 
Gibbon, $1.50. — Much Ado about Peter, by Jean Web- 
ster, illus., $1.50.— The Wild Geese, by Stanley J. 
Weyman, illus., $1.50. — Set in Silver, by C. N. and 
A. M. Williamson, $1.50. — The Landlubbers, by Ger- 
trude King, illus. in color, $1.50. — Ezekiel by Lucy 
Pratt, illus., $1.— Old Jim Case of South Hollow, by 
Edward I. Rice, with frontispiece^ $1. net. — A. Prince 
of Dreamers, by Flora Annie Steel, $1.25 net. — In 
the Valley of the Shadows, by Thomas Lee Woolwine, 
illus. in color, $1. — Irresolute Catherine, by Violet 
Jacob, $1. (Doubleday, Page & Co.) 

The Children of the Summer, by William Dean Howells, 
illus., $1.50. — The Hand-made Gentleman, by Irving 
Bacheller, with frontispiece, $1.50. — Wallace Rhodes, 
by Norah Davis, $1.50. — The Inner Shrine, anony- 
mous, illus., $1.50. — Mad Barbara, by Warwick Deep- 
ing, with frontispiece in color, $1.50. — Jason, by 
Justus Miles Forman, illus., $1.50. — The Actress, by 
Louise Closser Hale, illus., $1.50. — Katrine, by Elinor 
Macartney Lane, with frontispiece, $1.50. — The Gor- 
geous Borgia, by Justin Huntly McCarthy, with front- 
ispiece in color, $1.50. — The Lady of the White Veil, 
by Rose O'Neil, $1.50. — Peter, Peter, a romance out 
of town, by Maude Radford Warren, illus., $1.50. — 
The Planter, by Herman Whitaker, $1.50. (Harper & 
Brothers.) 

Fame's Pathway, by H. C. Chatfleld-Taylor, illus., $1.50. 
— Elizabeth Visits America, by Elinor Glyn, $1.50.— 
Rachel Lorian, by Mrs. Henry Dudeney, $1.50. — 
Idolatry, by Alice Perrin, $1.50. — Christopher Hlb- 
hault, Roadmaker, by Margaret Bryant, $1.50. — 
Syrinx, by Lawrence North, with frontispiece, $1.50. — 
The Cuckoo's Nest, by Martha Gilbert Dickinson 
Bianchi, $1.50. — Houses of Glass, by Helen Mackay, 
$1.50. (Duffleld & Co.) 

The Pilgrim's March, by H. H. Bashford, $1.50. — Home- 
spun, by Lottie B. Parker, $1.50. — The Lady of the 
Dynamos, by Adele M. Shaw and Carmelita Beckwith, 
$1.50. — Less than Kin, by Alice Duer Miller, $1.25. — 
The Runaway Place, by William P. Eaton and E. M. 
Underbill, $1.25. (Henry Holt & Co.) 

The Little Gods, a masque of the Far East, by Rowland 
Thomas, illus., $1.50. — Red Horse Hill, by Sidney 
McCall, $1.50. — The Strain of White, by Ada Wood- 
ruff Anderson, illus., $1.50. — In a Mysterious Way, 
by Anne Warner, illus., $1.50. — But Still a Man, by 
Margaret L. Knapp, $1.50. — A Royal Ward, by Percy 
Brebner, $1.50. — The Bridge Builders, by Anna Chapin 
Ray, $1.50.— The Whips of Time, by Arabella Kenealy, 
illus., $1.50. — The Miracles of Antichrist, by Selma 
Lagerlof, trans, from the Swedish by Pauline Bancroft 
Plach, new edition, $1.50. — Invisible Links, by Selma 
Lagerlof, trans, by Pauline Bancroft Flach, new edi- 
tion, $1.50. (Little, Brown, & Co.) 

Bill Truetell, a story of theatrical life, by George H. 
Brennan, illus. in color, etc., $1.50. — The Delafield 
Affair, by Florence Finch Kelly, illus. in color, $1.50. 
— Mission Tales in the Days of the Dons, by Mrs. 
A. S. C. Forbes, illus. in tint, $1.50. (A. C. McClurg 
& Co.) 

Elusive Isabel, by Jacques Futrelle, $1.50. — The Bill 
Toppers, by Andre Castaigne, $1.50. — Infatuation, by 
Lloyd Osbourne, illus., $1.50. — The Man in Lower 
Ten, by Mary Roberts Rinehart, illus., $1.50. — Loaded 
Dice, by Ellery H. Clark, illus., $1.25. (Bobbs-Mer- 
rlU Co.) 



Special Messenger, by Robert W. Chambers. — The Man 
without a Shadow, by Oliver Cabot, $1.50. — Master- 
builders, by J. B. Dunning, $1.50. — The Lady without 
Jewels, by Arthur Goodrich, $1.50. — The Raven, by 
George C. Hazelton, $1.50. — Brothers All, by Maarten 
Maartens, $1.50. — The Toll of the Sea, by Roy Nor- 
ton, $1.50. — The Morals of Germaine, by H. C. Row- 
land, $1.50. — A Year Out of Life, by Mary E. Waller, 
$1.50. — A King in Khaki, by H. K. Webster, $1.50. 
(D. Appleton & Co.) 

Mary Gray, by Katharine Tynan, illus. in color, $1.50. — 
The Amethyst Cross, by Fergus Hume, with frontis- 
piece in color, $1.50. — The Hate of Man, by Headon 
Hill, with frontispiece in color, $1.50. — A Life's Ar- 
rears, by Florence Warden, with frontispiece in color, 
$1.50. — Ships of Desire, by Kate Horn, with frontis- 
piece, $1.50." — The Interrupted Kiss, by Richard 
Marsh, with frontispiece in color, $1.50. — Hoodman 
Grey, Christian, by David Raeburn, with frontispiece, 
$1.50. — The Lure of Eve, by Edith Mary Moore, with 
frontispiece in color, $1.50. — A Daughter of the Storm, 
by Frank H. Shaw, with frontispiece in color, $1.50. — 
The Secret Paper, by Walter Wood, with frontispiece 
in color, $1.50. — The Wreathed Dagger, by Margaret 
Young, with frontispiece in color, $1.50. (Cassell & 
Co.) 

The Woman in Question, by John Reed Scott, illus. in 
color, $1.50. — The Winning Chance, by Elizabeth J. 
Budgette, with frontispiece in color, $1.50. — Love's 
Privilege, by Stella M. Diiring, with frontispiece in 
color, $1.50. — Lanier of the Cavalry, by Charles King, 
illus., $1.25. (J. B. Lippincott Co.) 

Aline of the Grand Woods, by Nevil G. Henshaw, $1.50. 
— Nora Conough, by W. B. Henderson, $1.25. — By the 
Shores of Arcady, by Isabel Graham Eaton, $1.25. 
(Outing Publishing Co.) 

The Lost Cabin Mine, by Frederick Niven, $1.50. — The 
Third Circle, by Frank Norris, with frontispiece, 
$1.50. — A Daughter of France, by Constance Eliza- 
beth Maud, $1.50. — Galahad Jones, by Arthur H. 
Adams, $1.50.— Joan of the Hills, by T. B. Clegg, 
$1.50.— Chip, by F. E. Mills Young, $1.50.— The 
Measure of our Youth, by Alice Herbert, $1.50. — The 
Holy Mountain, anonymous, $1.50 — The Odd Man, by 
Arnold Holcombe, $1.50.— Diana Dethroned, by W. M. 
Letts, $1.50. — The Congress Fan, by Charles Lowe, 
$1.50. — The Disappearance of the Dean, by W. Bar- 
rawell Smith, $1.50. — Sixpenny Pieces, by A. Neil 
Lyons, $1.50. — Maurin of the Maures, by Jean Aicard, 
trans, by Alfred AHinson, $1.50. — Maurin the Illus- 
trious, by Jean Aicard, trans, by Alfred Allinson, 
$1.50. — Someone Pays, by Noel Barwell, $1.50. (John 
I-ane Co.) 

Thrice Armed, by Harold Bindloss, $1.50. — The Glory of 
the Conquered, by Susan Glaspell, $1.50. — Partners 
Three, by Victor Mapes, $1.25. (Frederick A. Stokes 
Co.) 

The Watchers of the Plains, a tale of the western prai- 
ries, by Ridgwell Cullum, with frontispiece in color, 
$1.50. (George W. Jacobs & Co.) 

Miss Minerva and William Green Hill, by Frances Boyd 
Calhoun, illus, $1. — A Woman for Mayor, by Helen 
M. Winslow, illus., $1.50. (Reilly & Britton Co.) 

The Chrysalis, by Harold Morton Kramer, illus., $1.50. 
(Lothrop, Lee & Shepard Co.) 

The Full Glory of DIantha, a novel of New York life, 
by Mrs. Philip Verrill Mighels, $1.50. (Forbes & Co.) 

The Perfume of the Lady in Black, by Gaston Leroux, 
illus., $1.50. — The Magnate, by Robert Elson, $1.50. — 
The Blindness of Virtue, by Cosmo Hamilton, $1.50. — 
The Beetle, a mystery, by Richard Marsh, $1.50. 
(Brentano's.) 

The Young Nemesis, by Frank T. Bullen, illus. in color, 
$1.50. (E. P. Dutton & Co.) 

The Hand of God, by Cora Bennett Stephenson, with 
frontispiece, $1.50. (Ball Publishing Co.) 

TRAVEL AND DESCRIPTION. 

With Rifle in Five Continents, by Paul Nledieck, illus., 
$5. net. — Mexico, by C. Reginald Enoch, illus., $3. 
net. — The Real Japan, studies in contemporary Japan- 
ese manners, morals, administrations, and politics, 
by Sir Henry Norman, new edition, illus., $1.50 net. — 
England and the English, from an American point of 
view, by Price Collier, $1.50 net. — France of the 
French, by E. H. Barker, illus., $1.50 net. (Charles 
Scrlbner's Sons.) 

Portugal In 1908, by Ernest Oldmeadow, illus., $3.50 
net. — A British Officer in the Balkans, by Major 
Percy Henderson, illus., $3.50 net.- — Behind the Veil 
in Persia, by M. B. Hume-Grifflth, with narratives of 
experiences in both countries, by A. Hume-Griffith, 
Illus., $3.50 net. — Among the Wild Tribes of Afghan 
Frontiers, by T. L. Pennell, with introduction by 
Field-Marshal Earl Roberts, illus., $3.50 net. (J. B. 
Lippincott Co.) 



198 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



A Voyage on an Ice-pan, by Wilfred T. Grenfell, lllus. — 
1909 Satchel Guide to Europe, by W. J. Rolfe, with 
maps and plans, $1.50 net. (Houghton Mifflin Co.) 

Letters from China, with particular reference to the Em- 

• press Dowager and the women of China, by Sarah 
Pike Conger, lllus., $2.75 net. — A Summer in Tour- 
aine, by Frederick Lees, illus. in color, etc., $2.75 
net. — The Andean Land, by Chase S. Osborn, 2 vols., 
illus., $5. net. — The Empire of the East, Japan as it 
was, is, and will be, by H. B. Montgomery, illus. In 
color, etc., $2.50 net. (A. C. McClurg & Co.) 

Tunis and Kairouan, Carthage, etc., by Graham R. I. 
Petrie, illus. In color by the author, $4.80 net. — Vest 
Pocket Guide to Paris, illus. with maps and plans, 
50 cts. net. (Doubleday, Page & Co.) 

Seekers in Sicily, by Elizabeth Bisland, $2.50 net 
(John Lane Co.) 

One Irish Summer, by William Eleroy Curtis, illuS., $2. 
net. (Duffleld & Co.) 

Through Finland, by A. MacCallum Scott, $1.25 net. 
(E. P. Button & Co.) 

A Naturalist in Tasmania, by Geoffrey Smith, lllus. 
(Oxford University Press.) 

Peru, its story, people, and religion, by Geraldine Guin- 
ness, illus., $2.50 net. — By the Great Wall, selected 
correspondence of Isabella Riggs Williams, 1866-1897, 
with introduction by Arthur H. Smith, $1.50 net. — 
Spain of To-day from Within, with autobiography of 
the author, by Manuel Andujar, lllus., $1.25. — Day- 
break In Korea, by Mrs. W. M. Balrd, illus., 50 cts. 
net. (Fleming H. Revell Co.) 

Bvery-Day Japan, by Arthur Lloyd, with introduction by 
Count Tadasu Hayashi, lllus. in color, etc., $4. net. — 
Quaint Subjects of the King, by John Foster Eraser, 
illus., $1.75. (Cassell & Co.) 

The Man-Eaters of Tsavo, by J. H. Patterson, new and 
cheaper edition, illus., $1.75 net. (Macmlllan Co.) 

ART.-ARCHITECTURE.— MUSIC. 

Florentine Sculptors of the Renaissance, by Wilhelm 
Bode, illus., $4. net. — Great Masters of Dutch and 
Flemish Painting, by Wilhelm Bode, Illus., $2. net. — 
Art in Great Britain and Ireland, by Sir Walter Arm- 
strong, illus. in color, etc., $1.50 net. — English Houses 
and Gardens In the Seventeenth and Eighteenth Cen- 
turies, by Marvin MacCartney, illus., $6. net. — The 
Art of the Plasterer, by George P. Bankart, lllus., 
$10. net. — The Domestic Architecture of Great Brit- 
tain during the Tudor Period, Part II., illus., per set 
of 3 parts, $48. — History of Painting in Italy, by 
J. A. Crowe and G. B. Cavalcaselle, new edition re- 
vised and enlarged in 6 vols.. Vol. III., illus., $6. net. 
— A Study of the History of Music, by Edward Dick- 
inson, new enlarged edition, with bibliographical sup- 
plement, $2.50 net. — Drawings of Great Masters, new 
vols. : Alfred Stevens, by Hugh Stannus ; Watteau, by 
Octave Uzanne ; each lllus., $2.50 net. (Charles 
Scribner's Sons.) 
The Acropolis of Athens, by Martin L. D'Ooge, illus., 
$4. net. — Greek Architecture, by Allan Marquand, 
illus. — Grove's Dictionary of Music, revised and en- 
larged under the editorship of J. Fuller Maitland, 
Vol. v., completing the edition, $5. net (Macmlllan 
Co.) 
Mediaeval Architecture, by Arthur Kingsley Porter, 2 
vols., illus., $15. net (Baker & Taylor Co.) 

Builders of Spain, by Clara C. Perkins, 2 vols., illus., $5. 
net. — French Cathedrals and Chateaux, by Clara C. 
Perkins, new edition, 2 vols., illus., $5. net. (Henry 
Holt & Co.) 

The Spanish Series, edited by Albert F. Calvert, new 
vols. : Madrid, Royal Palaces of Spain, El Greco ; 
each illus., $1.50 net. — -Studio Year-Book of Decora- 
tive Art, 1909, illus. in color, etc., paper, $2.50 net ; 
cloth $3. net — Grieg and his Music, by H. T. Finck, 
new edition, illus., $2.50 net. (John Lane Co.) 

Grammar of Lettering, a handbook of alphabets, by 
Andrew W. Lyons, illus. in color, $2.50 net (J. B. 
Lippincott Co.) 

History of Architectural Development, 3 vols.. Vol. II., 
Medlseval, by F. M. Simpson, illus. (Longmans, 
Green, & Co.) 

A Handbook of Modern French Painting, by D. Cady 
Eaton, illus., $2. net (Dodd, Mead & Co.) 

Collector's Handbooks, new vol. : Wedgwood, by N. Hud- 
son Moore, Illus., $1. net. — Masterpieces in Color, 
new vols. : Whistler, Rubens, Constable, Memling ; 
illus. in color, each 65 cts. net ; leather, $1.50 net. 
(Frederick A. Stokes Co.) 

Cassell's House Decoration, edited by Paul N. Hasluck, 
illus. in color, etc., $3. net. — Cassell's Royal Academy, 
Pictures and Sculpture, 1909, $1.75 net (Cassell & 
Co.) 

Classics in Art series, new vol. : The Work of Rembrandt, 
with biographical introduction by Adolf Rosenberg, 
illus., $3.50 net. (Brentano's.) 



What is a Picture? 60 cts. net. (A. C. McClurg & Co.) 
Practical Church Music, a discussion of purpose, meth- 
ods, and plans, by Edmund S. Lorenz, $1.50 net. 
(Fleming H. Revell Co.) 

NATURE AND OUTDOOR LIFE. 

American Nature Series, new vols. : Fish Stories, by 
Charles F. Holder and David Starr Jordan, $1.75 
net ; The Life of a Fossil Hunter, by C. H. Sternberg, 
$1.60 net; Birds of the World, by F. H. Knowlton 
and Robert Ridgway, $7. net ; each illus. in color, etc. 
(Henry Holt & Co.) 

The Biography of a Silver-Fox, by Ernest Thompson 
Seton, lllus. by the author, $1.50. (Century Co.) 

Wild Life on the Rockies, by Enos A. Mills, illus., $1.75 
net. — In American Fields and Forests, by Henry D. 
Thoreau, John Burroughs, John Muir, Bradford Tor- 
rey, Dallas Lore Sharp, and Olive Thorne Miller, 
illus. in photogravure, $1.50 net. — Birds of the Bos- 
ton Public Garden, a study in migration, by Horace 
Wlnslow Wright, with introduction by Bradford Tor- 
rey, lllus. — Stickeen, by John Muir, 60 cts. net 
(Houghton Mifflin Co.) 

Wild Flowers and Fruits, by George L. Walton, illus. in 
color, etc., $1.50 net. — The Home Garden, by Eben 
E. Rexford, lllus., $1.25 net. — Our Insect Friends and 
Enemies, by John B. Smith, illus., $1.50 net. (J. B. 
Lippincott Co.) 

The American Flower Garden, by Neltje Blanchan, lim- 
ited edition, illus. in color, etc., $10. net. — The Dog 
Book, by James Watson, new one-volume edition, 
illus., $5. net. — A Key to the Nature Library, by 
Julia E. Rogers, illus., $1.50 net. (Doubleday, Page 
& Co.) 

The Summer Garden of Pleasure, by Mrs. Stephen Bat- 
son, illus. in color, $3.50. (A. C. McClurg & Co.) 

Ant Communes and How they are Governed, a study in 
natural civics, by Henry C. McCook, illus., $2. net. 
(Harper & Brothers.) 

The Nature Book, a book for those who know the Joys 
of the open air, with introduction on "The Love of 
Nature," by Walter Crane, Vol. II., completing the 
work, illus. in color, $5. net. — Life Histories of 
Familiar Plants, popular accounts of their develop- 
ment, habits, and general phenomena, by John J. 
Ward, illus., $1.75 net — Cassell's A B C of Garden- 
ing, an illustrated encyclopedia of practical horti- 
culture, by Walter P. Wright, illus., $1.25 net. — 
Gardening in the North, by S. Arnott and R. P. 
Brotherston, $1. net. — Sweet Peas and how to grow 
them, by H. H. Thomas, illus., 50 cts. net. — Little 
Gardens and how to make them, by H. H. Thomas, 
illus., 40 cts. net. (Cassell & Co.) 

The Transformation of the Animal World, by Charles 
Desperet, $1.75 net. (D. Appieton & Co.) 

The Earth's Bounty, by Mrs. Kate V. Saint Maur. (Mac- 
mlllan Co.) 

A Guide to the Country Home, by Edward K. Parkinson, 
$1. net (Outing Publishing Co.) 

Who's Who among the Wild Flowers, by W. I. Beecroft, 
arranged by Frances Duncan, illus., $1. net. (Moffat, 
Yard & Co.) 

SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY. 

What is Physical Life? by William Hanna Thomson, 
$1.50 net. (Dodd, Mead & Co.) 

Fifty Years of Darwinism, eleven centennial addresses 
in honor of Charles Darwin, $2.50 net. (Henry Holt 
& Co.) 

Rural Science Series, new vols. : The Physiology of Plant 
Production, by B. M. Duggar ; Forage Crops for the 
South, by S. M. Tracy ; Fruit Insects, by M. B. Sling- 
erland ; Principles of Soil Management, by T. L. 
Lyon and E. O. Fippin. — Concealing Coloration in the 
Animal Kingdom, by Albert H. and Gerald H. Thayer, 
illus. (Macmlllan Co.) 

The Making of Species, by Douglas Dewar and F'rank 
Finn, $2.50 net. (John Lane Co.) 

Chemistry in Daily Life, by Dr. Lassar-Cohn, trans, by 
M. M. Pattison Muir, fourth edition, $1.75 net. — 
Elementary Agricultural Chemistry, by Herbert Ingle, 
illus.. $1.50 net (J. B. Lippincott Co.) 

The Human Species, its specific characteristics consid- 
ered from the standpoint of comparative anatomy, 
physiology, and pathology, by Ludwig Hopf, trans, 
from the German, illus., $3. net. — The General Char- 
acters of the Proteins, by S. B. Schryver, 80 cts. 
net— An Introduction to the Science of Radio-activity, 
by Charles W. Rafferty, illus. — Spinning Tops and 
Gyroscopic Motion, by Harold Crabtree, illus. (Long- 
mans, Green, & Co.) 

The Handyman's Enquire Within, edited by Paul N. 
Hasluck, illus., $3. net — Cassell's Cyclopedia of Me- 
chanics, edited by Paul N. Hasluck, Vol. V., com- 
pleting the work, illus., $2.50 net (Cassell & Co.) 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



199 



Present-Day Primers, first vols. : The Conquest of the 
Air, the advent of aerial navigation, by A. Lawrence 
Rotch ; Wireless Telegraphy and Wireless Telephony, 
by A. E, Kennelly, new enlarged edition ; each illus., 
$1. net. (Moffat, Yard & Co.) 

POLITICS. - ECONOMICS. - SOCIOLOGY. 

The Government of European Cities, by William Bennett 
Munro. — The People's Law, by Charles Sumner Lob- 
ingier. — Socialism in History and Practice, by Morris 
Hillquit. — Socialism, by John Spargo, new revised 
edition. — The Citizen's Library, edited by Richard T. 
Ely, new vols. : Credit and Banking, by David Kinley ; 
The Government of Great American Cities, by Delos 
F. Wilcox ; Wage-Earning Women, by Annie Marion 
MacLean, with introduction by Grace H. Dodge ; per 
vol., $1.25 net. (Macmillan Co.) 

The World United, the Panama Canal, its history, its 
making, its future, by John George Leigh, illus., $4. 
net. (A. C. McClurg & Co.) 

America and the Far Eastern Question, an examination 
of modern phases of the Far Eastern question, by 
Thomas P. Millard, illus., $4. net. (Moffat, Yard & 
Co.) 

Evolution of Modern Germany, by William Harbut Daw- 
son, $4. net. — Social Organization, a study of the 
larger mind, by Charles Horton Cooley, $1.50 net. — 
The Churches and the Wage Earners, a study of the 
cause and cure of their separation, by C. Betrand 
Thompson, $1. net. (Charles Scribner's Sons.) 

Chapters on Municipal Administration and Accounting, 
by Frederick A. Cleveland. — Railroad Promotion and 
Capitalization in the United States, by Frederick A. 
Cleveland. — The Essentials of Self-Government In 
England and Wales, a comprehensive survey, by Ellis 
T. Powell. — Joseph Cowen's Speeches on the Near 
Eastern Question, foreign and imperial affairs, and on 
the British Empire, 1876-1897, revised by his daugh- 
ter. — Unemployment, a problem of industry, by W. H. 
Beveridge, $2.40 net. (Longmans, Green, & Co.) 

American Public Problems series, new vol. : The Chinese 
in the United States, by M. R. Coolidge, $1.50 net — 
Freight Tariffs and Traffic, by Logan G. McPherson, 
$2. net. (Henry Holt & Co.) 

Remaking the Mississippi, by John L. Mathews, illus., 
$1.75 net. — Human Nature in Politics, by Graham 
Wallas, $1.50 net.— State Insurance, by Frank W. 
Lewis, $1.25 net. (Houghton Mifflin Co.) 

The Cameralists, by Albion W. Small. — Social Duties 
from the Christian Point of View, a text book for the 
study of social problems, by Charles Richmond Hen- 
derson. (University of Chicago Press.) 

The Gospel of Anarchy, by Hutchlns Hapgood, $1.50. 
(Duffield & Co.) 

On the Tracks of Life, the immorality of morality, trans, 
from the Italian of Leo G. Sera by J. M. Kennedy, 
with introduction by Oscar Levy, $2.50 net. (John 
Lane Co.) 

The Menace of Socialism, by W. Lawler Wilson, $1.50 
net. (George W. Jacobs & Co.) 

The Woman's Invasion, by William Hard, collaborated 
by Rheta Childe Dorr, supplementary facts by Dr. 
Weyl, illus., $1.60 net. (Century Co.) 

The Panama Canal and Its Makers, by Vaughan Cornish, 
D. Sc, Illus., $1.50 net. (Little, Brown, & Co.) 

The Southern South, by A. B. Hart, $1.50 net. (D. 
Appleton & Co.) 

The A B C of Taxation, by C. B. Fillebrown, Illus., $1.20 
net. (Doubleday, Page & Co.) 

The South African Natives, their progress and present 
condition, edited by the South African Native Races 
Committee, $2. net. (E. P. Dutton & Co.) 

The Passing of the Tariff, by Raymond L. Bridgman, 
$1.20 net. (Sherman, French & Co.) 

The Fabian Essays In Socialism, by G. Bernard Shaw, 
Sir Sidney Olivier, Annie Besant, and others, new edi- 
tion, with new preface by G. Bernard Shaw, 50 cts. 
net. (Ball Publishing Co.) 

RELIGION AND THEOLOGY. 

The Laws of Friendship, human and divine, by Henry 
Churchill King. — Faith and Works of Christian SI- 
ence, by the author of "Confessio Medici." — The Ap- 
proach to the Social Question, by Francis Greenwood 
Peabody. — Studies In Religion and Theology, by A. M. 
Pairbaim. — A Valid Christianity for To-day, by Rt. 
Rev. Charles D. Williams. — Modern Thought and the 
Crisis In Belief, by Robert M. Wenley. — The One- 
Volume Commentary on the Holy Bible, by various 
writers, edited by John R. Dummelow. — The Preacher, 
his person, message, and method, by Arthur S. Hoyt, 
$1.50 net. — A Second Year of Sunday School Lessons, 



by Florence Palmer King. — The Bible for Home and 
School, edited by Shailer Mathews, 4 new volumes. — 
United Study of Mission series, new vols. — The Gospel 
in Latin Lands, by Mrs. Francis E. Clark. (Macmil- 
lan Co.) 
Dictionary of the Bible, edited by James Hastings, with 
cooperation and assistance of J. A. Selbie, J. C. Lambert, 
and Shailer Mathews, complete one-volume edition, 
with maps and illustrations, $5. net. — International 
Theological Library, new vol. : The Christian Doc- 
trine of God, bv W. N. Clarke, $2.50 net. — Epochs in 
the Life of Paul, by A. T. Robertson, $1.25 net. — 
Modernism, by Paul Sabatier, $1.25 net. — The His- 
torical Bible, by Charles Foster Kent, In 6 vols.. Vol. 
III., The Kings and Prophets of Israel and Judah, 
from the division of the kingdom to the Babylonian 
exile, $1. net. — The Gospel and the Church, by Alfred 
Loisy, new edition, with Introduction by Newman 
Smyth, $1. net. — Passing Protestantism and Coming 
Catholicism, by Newman Smyth, third edition, $1. 
net. — The Faith of a Modern Protestant, by Wllhelm 
Bousset, 75 cts. net. — A Working Theology, by Alex- 
ander MacColl, 75 cts. net. (Charles Scribner's 
Sons.) 
Studies In Christianity, by Borden Parker Bowne, $1.50 
net. — Silver Cup, by Charles Cuthbert Hall, $1.25 
net. — Is Immortality Desirable? by G. Lowes Dick- 
inson, 75 cts. net. (Houghton Mifflin Co.) 
The Emmanuel Movement, Its principles, methods, and 
results, by Elwood Worcester and Samuel McComb, 
$1.50 net. — School Sermons, by Henry Augustus Colt, 
edited by C. W. Colt, $1.50 net. (Moffat, Yard & Co.) 
The Spirit of Christ in Common Life, sermons by the 
late Charles Bigg, with introduction by the Bishop 
of Oxford, $2 net. — Pastor Ovium, the day-book of a 
country parson, by John Huntley Skrine. — A History 
of the Doctrine of the Holy Eucharist, by Darwell 
Stone, 2 vols. — Studies in the Resurrection of Christ, 
an argument, by Charles H. Robinson.— The Dawn of 
the Catholic Revival In England, 1781-1803, by Ber- 
nard Ward, 2 vols., Illus. — The Being and Attributes 
of God, by Francis J. Hall, $1.50 net. — Immortality, 
by H. E. Holmes, $1.40 net. — The Gospel and Human 
Needs, the Hulsean lectures for 1908-9, with addi- 
tions, by John Nevill Figgis, $1.25 net. — Ecclesia 
Discens, the church's lesson from the age, by James 
H. F. Peile, $1.60 net. — The Divine Friendship, by 
Jesse Brett, $1. net.— The Precious Blood of Christ, 
by B. W. Randolph, 75 cts. net. (Longmans, Green, 
& Co.) 
Fragments that Remain, thoughts on the life of the 
Christian, by A. T. Mahan, D. C. L., $1.50 net. (Lit- 
tle, Brown & Co.) 
Christ and the Eastern Soul, the witness of the Oriental 
consciousness to Jesus Christ, by Charles Cuthbert 
Hall. — The Religious Attitude and Life In Islam, by 
Duncan B. Macdonald. — The Teaching of Jesus about 
the Future, according to the Synoptic Gospels, by 
Henry Burton Sharman. — The Development of the 
Idea of Atonement, by Ernest D. Burton, J. M. P. 
Smith, and Gerald B. Smith. — Studies In Galilee, by 
Ernest W. G. Masterman. — The Function of Religion 
in Man's Struggle for Existence, by George Burman 
Foster. (University of Chicago Press.) 
The Biblical Illustrator, Isaiah, Vol. II., by Joseph S. 
Excell, Illus., $2. — Christian Science in the Light of 
Holy Scripture, by I. M. Haldeman, $1.50 net. — The 
Analyzed Bible, by G. Campbell Morgan, new vols. : 
The Gospel of St. John, The Book of Job; each $1. 
net. — The Exploration of Egypt and the Old Testa- 
ment, a summary of results obtained by exploration 
In Egyot up to the present time, with a fuller account 
of those bearing on the Old Testament, by J. Garrow 
Duncan, illus., $1.50 net. — The Life of Jesus Christ, 
by James Stalker, new revised edition, 60 cts. — West- 
minster New Testament, new vol. : The Gospel of St. 
Mark, by S. W. Green ; 75 cts. net. — Popular Lec- 
tures of Sam Jones, edited by Walt Holcomb, $1. net. 
— Life in the Word, by Philip Mauro, 50 cts. — Moun- 
tains and Valleys in the Ministry of Jesus, by G. 
Campbell Morgan, 25 cts. net. — The Life Beyond, an 
allegory, by Mrs. Alfred Gatty, new edition, 35 cts. 
net. (Fleming H. Revell Co.) 
The Teaching of Jesus, by Count Leo Tolstoi, 75 cts. 
net. — Personal Religion in Egypt before Christianity, 
by W. M. Flinders Petrle, 75 cts. net. (Harper & 
Brothers.) 
Helps toward Nobler Living, or. Unto the Hills, by Floyd 
W. Tomkins, 50 cts. net. — The Sunday School Teach- 
er's Manual, designed as an aid to teachers In pre- 
paring Sunday-school lessons, edited by William M. 
Groton, $1. net. — Character, some talks to young men, 
by James Clayton Mitchell, 75 cts. net. (George W. 
Jacobs & Co.) 
Vedanta In Practice, by SwamI Paramananda, $1. net. 
(Baker & Taylor Co.) 



200 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



Faith, the world and the thing, by Handley C. G. Moule, 
with photogravure portrait, $1.23 net. (Cassell & 
Co.) 

The After-Life, by Henry Franlt, $1.50 net. — Religion 
and Life, a volume of addresses by members of the 
faculty of the Meadville Theological School, |1.10 
net. — Providence and Calamity, by Charles W. Heis- 
ley, 11.20 net. (Sherman, French & Co.) 



PHILOSOPHY AND PSYCHOLOGY. 

A Pluralistic Universe, lectures on the Hibbert Founda- 
tion delivered at Oxford, 1908, by William James, 
$1.50 net. (Longmans, Green & Co.) 

Psychotherapy, by Hugo Miinsterberg, $2. net. — Moffat, 
Yard & Co.) 

The Problem of Human Life as viewed by the great 
thinkers from Plato to the present time, by Rudolph 
Eucken, trans, by W. S. Hough and W. R. Boyce- 
Gibson, $3. net. (Charles Scrlbner's Sons.) 

What is Pragmatism? by James Bissett Pratt. (Macmil- 
lan Co.) 

The Moral System of Dante's Inferno, by W. H. V. Reade. 
— Kant's Theory of Knowledge, by H. A. Prichard. 
(Oxford University Press.) 



HYGIENE. — MEDICINE. — SURGERY. 

Self-Help for Nervous Women, familiar talks on economy 
In nervous expenditure, by John K. Mitchell, $1. net. 
(J. B. Lippincott Co.) 

The Philosophy of Long Life, by Jean Finot, trans, by 
Harry Roberts, $2.50 net. (John Lane Co.) 

Text-Book of Nursing, by Margaret Donahue, $1.75 net. 
(D. Appleton & Co.) 

Tuberculosis, a preventable and curable disease, by S. 
Adolphus Knopf, illus., $2. net. — Some End-Results 
in Surgery, by James G. Mumford, 25 cts. net. (Mof- 
fat, Yard & Co.) 

The Doctor Says, a book of advice for the household, 
with hints for the preservation of health and preven- 
tion of disease, $1. net. (George W. Jacobs & Co.) 

A Natural Method of Physical Training, by Edwin Check- 
ley, new edition, illus., $1.25 net. (Baker & Taylor 
Co.) 

The Baby, his care and training, by Marianna Wheeler, 
revised edition, $1. net. (Harper & Brothers.) 

Nervousness, a review of the moral treatment of disor- 
dered nerves, by Alfred T. Schofleld, 50 cts. net. 
(Moffat, Yard & Co.) 

Making the Best of Things series, by Alice K. Fallows, 
comprising : The Point of View, A Talk on Relaxa- 
tion, Mental Hygiene for Everyday Living ; per vol., 
35 cts. (A. C. McClurg & Co.) 



NEW EDITIONS OF STANDARD LITERATURE. 

Montaigne's Essays, the Florlo translation, limited library 
edition, 3 vols., introduction by Thomas Seccombe, 
with portraits, per set, $10. net. (E. P. Dutton & 
Co.) 

Works of Thomas Hardy, pocket edition, first vol. : Tess 
of the D'Urbervllles, $1.25.— History of the United 
Netherlands, from the death of William the Silent 
to 1609, new edition, 2 vols., $3. net. (Harper & 
Brothers.) 

Poems of Dante Gabriel Rossetti, 2 vols., with photo- 
gravure portrait, $5. net. — Poems of Oscar Wilde, 
complete edition, edited, with a biographical introduc- 
tion, by Temple Scott, $1.50 net.— The Wayside Se- 
ries, new vols. : Soldier Tales, by Rudyard Kipling ; 
The Happy Prince, and other fairy tales, by Oscar 
Wilde ; Rubalyat of Omar Khayyam, trans. In verse 
by Edward Fitz Gerald ; Quatrains of Omar Khay- 
yam, trans, into prose by Justin Huntly McCarthy ; 
per vol., $1. (Brentano's.) 

Victor Hugo's Works, handy library edition, 8 new vols., 
with photogravure frontispieces, per set, $8. net ; 
leather, $20. net. (Little, Brown, & Co.) 

Poetical Works of John Dryden, edited by George R. 
Noyes, Cambridge edition, with photogravure portrait 
and vignette, $3. (Houghton Mifflin Co.) 

The Saints' Everlasting Rest, or, a treatise on the blessed 
state of the Saints In their enjoyment of God In 
Glory, by Richard Baxter, edited by William Young, 
with photogravure frontispiece, $2.50 net. (J. B. 
Lippincott Co.) 

Prose and Poetical Works of Charles and Mary Lamb, 
edited by Thomas Hutchinson, 2 vols. ; also Oxford 
India paper one- volume edition. (Oxford University 
Press.) 



Trimalchio's Dinner, trans, from the Latin of Petronius 
Arbiter, with introduction and bibliographical Index 
by Harry Thurston Peck, $1.50. (Dodd, Mead & Co.) 

Hunts with Jorrocks, by Robert Surtees, edition de luxe, 
Illus. In color, etc., $5. net. (Doubleday, Page & Co.) 

BOOKS FOR THE YOUNG. 

Sunnyfield, by Louise Morgan Sill, Illus., $1.25. — Story- 
Told Science, first vol. : Little Busybodles, by Jean- 
nette Marks and Julia Moody, Illus., 75 cts. — Adven- 
tures In Field and Forest, by Roger Starbuck, Frank 
H. Spearman, Charles H. Day, and others, illus., 60 
cts. — On Track and Diamond, by George Harvey, 
Van Tassel Sutphen, James M. Hallowell, and others, 
illus., 60 cts. — Harper's Machinery Book for Boys, 
edited by Joseph H. Adams, illus., $1.75. — Heroes of 
American History, new vol. : Sir Walter Raleigh, by 
Frederick A. Ober, illus., $1. net. (Harper & Broth- 
ers.) 

Every Child Should Know Books, new vols. : Kipling 
Poems and Stories Every Child Should Know, edited 
by Mary E. Burt ; The Marvelous Adventures of Plnoc- 
chio, from the Italian of "Carlo CoUodl" by A. 6. 
Capranl, edited by Mary E. Burt ; Wild Flowers 
Every Child Should Know, by Frederic William 
Stack ; each illus. — The Bishop and the Boogerman, 
by Joel Chandler Harris, Illus., $1. net. (Doubleday, 
Page & Co.) 

A Child's Guide to American History, by H. W. Elson, 
illus., $1.25 net. — A Child's Guide to Reading, by 
John Macy, Illus., $1.25 net. (Baker & Taylor Co.) 

The Road to Oz, by L. Frank Baum, Illus. In color, $1.25. 
— The House a Jap Built, illus. in color, 75 cts. — 
Little Johnny and the Taffy Possums, illus. in color, 
by J. R. Bray, 35 cts. net. (Reilly & Britton Co.) ' 

A Pair of Madcaps, by J. T. Trowbridge, illus., $1.50. — 
Dave Porter and his Classmates, by Edward Strate- 
meyer, illus., $1.25. — For the Liberty of Texas, by 
Edward Stratemeyer, Illus., $1.25. — With Taylor on 
the Rio Grande, by Edward Stratemeyer, illus., $1.25. 
— Under Scott In Mexico, by Edward Stratemeyer, 
Illus., $1.25. (Lothrop, Lee & Shepard Co.) 

Bob's Cave Boys, by Charles P. Burton, Illus., $1.50. — 
Witter Whitehead's Own Story, by Henry G. Hunt- 
ing, $1.25. (Henry Holt & Co.) 

When Mother Lets Us Garden, by Frances Duncan, illus., 
75 cts. net. (Moffat, Yard & Co.) 

The Way, a devotional book for boys, by George Whar- 
ton Pepper, leather, $1. net. (Longmans, Green, & 
Co.) 

Happy School Days, a book for girls, by Margaret B. 
Sangster, $1.25. (Forbes & Co.) 

The Garden of Girls, by Marian A. Hilton, Illus., $1.50. 
(Tandy-Thomas Co.) 

The Boys' Book of Locomotives, by J. R. Howden, third 
edition, illus., $2. (Frederick A. Stokes Co.) 

EDUCATION. -BOOKS FOR SCHOOL AND COLLEGE. 

History of Education before the Middle Ages, by Frank 
P. Graves. — The American High School, by John 
Franklin Brown. — Genetic Psychology, by Edwin A. 
Kirkpatrick. — The Psychology of Thinking, by Irving 
E. Miller. — Principles of American Government, by 
Charles A. Beard. — ^Plane and Solid Coordinate Geom- 
etry, by H. B. Fine and H. D. Thompson. — Plane and 
Spherical Trigonometry, by D. A. Rothrock. — Outlines 
of Psychology, by E. B. Titchener. — Applied Mechan- 
ics for Engineers, by Edward L. Hancock, $2. net. — 
College Chemistry, by Louis Kahlenberg. — The Ele- 
ments of Light and Sound, by W. S. Franklin and 
Barry MacNutt. — The Rhetoric of Oratory, by Edwin 
du Bols Shurter. — The Government of European Cit- 
ies, by W. B. Munro. — A Text-book on Physical 
Chemistry, by Harry C. Jones. — Alternating Currents 
and Alternating Current Machinery, by Dugald C. 
and John P. Jackson. — Selections from American Lit- 
erature, 1607-1800, by William B. Cairns. — Macmlllan 
Latin Classics, new vols. : Livy, Book XXI, and Se- 
lections, edited by James C. Egbert ; Tacitus' Agri- 
cola, edited by Duane R. Stuart ; Tacitus' Histories, 
I and III, edited by Frank G. Moore ; Plautus' Trl- 
nummus, edited by G. R. Falrclough. — Recitations for 
School Assemblies with Suggested Programs, com- 
piled by Anna T. Lee O'Neill. — A Manual of Music, 
by Frank A. Rlx. — Dictation Day by Day, by Kate 
van Wagenen.— Words Spoken and Written, by Henry 
P. Emerson, 3 books, Book I. — Cassar, the Gallic War, 
edited by A. L. Hodges. — Elements of Agriculture, by 
G. F. Warren. — Latin Prose Composition, by Charles 
M. Baker and Alexander J. Inglls. — The Universal 
Speller, by William E. Chancellor. — Macmillan's 
Pocket Classics, new vols. : Stevenson's Kidnapped, 
edited by John T. Brown ; Irvlng's Knickerbocker's 
New York, edited by E. A. Greenlaw ; Irvlng's Tales 
of a Traveller, edited by Jennie F. Chase; Haw- 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



201 



thorne's Mosses from an Old Manse, edited by Charles 
E. Burbank ; Ruskin's Crown of Wild Olives and 
Queen of the Air, edited by W. F. Melton ; Cooper's 
The Spy, edited by Samuel Thurber, Jr. ; Dana's Two 
Years before the Mast, edited by H. E. Keyes ; per 
vol., 25 cts. (Macmlllan Co.) 

American History, by James A. James and Albert H. 
Sanford. — Elementary Logic, by William J. Taylor. — 
English Speech, its history and use, by George Philip 
Krapp. — A Practical Arithmetic, by Mr. and Mrs. F. 
L. Stevens and Talt Butler, 65 cts. net. — The School 
Garden Book, by Clarence M. Weed and Philip Emer- 
son. — Hymnal for Male Voices, by Charles H. Morse 
and Ambrose White Vernon, with introduction by 
President Tucker of Dartmouth College. — Agriculture 
for Common Schools, by M. L. Fisher and F. A. Cot- 
ton. — Physiology and Hygiene for Young People, by 
Andrew and Robert Eadle, Illus. — A Natural Speller, 
by Augustus H. Kelley and Herbert L. Morse, 25 cts. 
net. — The Scribner English Classics, new vols. : 
Shakespeare's Julius Ccesar, edited by Frederick H. 
Sykes ; Browning's Shorter Poems, edited by John 
W. Cunlifiee ; Scott's The Lady of the Lake, edited by 
Ralph H. Bowles ; each 25 cts. net. (Charles Scrlb- 
ner's Sons.) 

The Reorganization of Our Colleges, by Clarence F. 
BIrdseye, $1.75 net. (Baker & Taylor Co.) 

Education In the Far East, by Charles F. Thwing. — So- 
cial Development and Education, by M. V. O'Shea. — 
Heroes of European History, by Eva March Tappan. 
— A History of American Literature, by William E. 
Simonds. — English for Foreigners, by Sara O'Brien, 
with Introduction by Thomas M. Balliet. — Melodies of 
English Verse, by Lewis Kennedy Morse. — A Primer 
of Nursery Rhymes, by Leota Swem, 30 cts. net. — 
Riverside Educational Monographs, edited by Henry 
Suzzallo, first vols. : Education, an essay, and other 
selections, by Ralph Waldo Emerson ; the Meaning of 
Infancy and the part played by infancy in the edu- 
cation of man, by John FIske ; Education for Effi- 
ciency and the new definition of the cultivated 
man, by Charles W. Eliot ; Ethical Principles Under- 
lying Education, by John Dewey ; Self-Cultlvatlon in 
English, by George Herbert Palmer ; Ethical and 
Moral Instruction in the Schools, by George Herbert 
Palmer, per vol., 35 cts. net. — Riverside Literature 
series, new vols. : Goldsmith's The Good-Natured 
Man, She Stoops to Conquer, edited by Thomas H. 
Dickinson, each, paper, 15 cts. net. ; Representative 
English and Scottish Ballads, edited by R. Adelaide 
Wltham under the supervision of William A. Nellson, 
paper, 30 cts. net ; Shakespeare's King Lear, from the 
Cambridge edition, with introduction and notes by A. 
H. Thorndike, paper, 15 cts. net ; Thoreau's Katahdin 
and Chesuncook, from "The Maine Woods," with 
introduction by Clifton Johnson, paper, 15 cts. net. 
(Houghton, Mifflin Co.) 

English Scholarship System, in Its relation with the sec- 
ondary schools for boys and girls, by M. E. Sadler 
and H. Bompas Smith. — Text-Book of Experimental 
Psychology, by Charles S. Myers, $2.40. — Writing 
and Speaking, a text-book of rhetoric and composition, 
by Charles Sears Baldwin. — Constructive Exercise in 
English, by Maude M. Frank.- — Elementary Chemis- 
try, by W. H. Godfrey. (Longmans, Green, & Co.) 

English Poems, the Elizabethan and Caroline periods, 
edited by Walter C. Bronson. (University of Chicago 
Press.) 

Sketches of Rulers of India, by G. D. Oswell. (Oxford 
University Press.) 

Modern Educators and their Ideals, by Thomas MIsawa, 
$1.50 net. (D. Appleton & Co.) 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Ships and Sailors of Old Salem, by Ralph D. Paine, 
illus., $3.50 net. — The Conquest of the Missouri, the 
story of Grant Marsh, Steamboat Captain, by Joseph 
M. Hanson, $2. net.— Sea Fishing from Cape Cod to 
the Carolinas, by Louis Rhead, $1.50 net. — American 
Poultry Culture, by R. B. Sando, Illus., $1.50 net. 
(Outing Publishing Co.) 

Punch and Abraham Lincoln, a collection of cartoons 
published during the American Civil War, with Intro- 
duction by William S. Walsh, illus., $1. net. — Our 
American Holidays, edited by Robert Haven Schauf- 
fler, new vols. : Lincoln's Birthday, and Memorial 
Day ; each SI. net. — The Bridge Fiend, a cheerful 
book for bridge-whisters, by Arthus Lorlng Brace, 
with frontispiece, $1. net. (Moffat, Yard & Co.) 

Roget's Thesaurus of English Words and Phrases, classi- 
fied and arranged to facilitate expression of ideas, 
by Peter Mark Roget, enlarged and Improved, partly 
from author's notes, with index, by John Lewis Roget, 
$1.60 net. — Visitors to the New World before and 
after Columbus, by Marion Mulhall. (Longmans, 
Green, & Co.) 



British Historical Portraits, chosen by Emery Walker, 
Vol. I., from Richard II. to Henry Wriothesley, each 
portrait accompanied by a brief sketch written by 
C. R. L. Fletcher, with general Introduction by C. F. 
Bell. — Welsh Medieval Law, a thirteenth century MS. 
in the British Museum ; text of the laws of Howell 
the Good, reproduced with translation, introduction, 
appendix, glossary, index, and map, by A. W. Wade- 
Evans. (Oxford University Press.) 

Art of Speech and Deportment, selected readings, by 
Anna Morgan, 2 vols., each ,$1.50 net. — Jane Hamil- 
ton's Recipes, delicacies from the Old Dominion, by 
Charlotte M. Poindexter, $1. — The Railway Mail 
Service, its origin and development, by Clark E. 
Carr, illus., 50 cts. net. — My Chums In Caricature, 
a burlesque gallery, by Herschel Williams, 50 cts. net. 
(A. C. McClurg & Co.) 

Manners and Customs in All Lands, by Charles Morris, 
$1. net. — Readers Reference Library, new vol. : Ben- 
ham's Book of Quotations, $3.50 net. (J. B. Llppln- 
cott Co.) 

Women of All Nations, a record of their characteristics, 
habits, manners, customs, and influence, by many 
writers, 2 vols., Illus. In color, etc., $12 net. — Cas- 
sell's Household Cookery, by Lizzie Heritage, with 
introduction by J. L. W. Thudlchum, Illus., $1.50. 
(Cassell & Co.) 

Human Speech, by N. C. Macnamara, $1.75 net. — Build- 
ing the Woman, by Caroline Latimer, $2. net. — Mod- 
ern Accounting, by H. R. Hatfield, $1.75 net. — Story 
of Oil, by W. S. Tower, 75 cts. net. (D. Appleton 
& CO.) 

Haremlik, some pages from the life of Turkish women, 
by Demetra Vaka. — Choosing a Vocation, by Frank 
Parsons. (Houghton Mifflin Co.) 

When Railroads were New, by C. F. Carter, $2.50 net. — 
Athletic Games in the Education of Women, by Ger- 
trude Dudley and Frances A. Kellor, $1.25 net. 
(Henry Holt & Co.) 

The American Newspaper, by James B. Rogers. (Univer- 
sity of Chicago Press.) 

Toys of Other Days, by Mrs. F. Nevell Jackson, illus., 
$7.50 net. (Charles Scribner's Sons.) 

Beyond the Borderline of Life, by Gustavus Myers, $1. 
net. — How I Know that the Dead Return, by Will- 
iam T. Stead, 75 cts. net. — Camping and Camp Cook- 
ing, by Frank A Bates, Illus., 50 cts. net. — Vest 
Pocket Limericks, designed as a make-joy and kill- 
care, 50 cts. net. (Ball Publishing Co.) 

A Dickens Dictionary, characters and scenes of the nov- 
els and miscellaneous works, alphabetically arranged 
by Alex. J. Philip. — ^Passing English of the Victorian 
Era, a dictionary of heterodox English slang and 
phrase, by J. Redding Ware, $2.50 net. — Pocket Dic- 
tionary series, new vol. : Francais et AUemand les 
deux Parties, a French-German and German-French 
wordbook, by H. Schwann, 50 cts. — Miniature Refer- 
ence Library, new vol. : Dictionary of Philosophical 
Terms, by Arthur Butler, 50 cts. (E, P. Dutton & 
Co.) 

Cooking for Two, a handbook for young housekeepers, 
by Janet Mackenzie Hall, Illus., $1.50 net. — The Small 
Yacht, its handling and management in racing and 
sailing, by Edwin A. Boardman, illus., $2. net. (Lit- 
tle, Brown, & Co.) 

Letters of a Japanese Schoolboy, by Wallace Irwin, illus., 
$1.50. (Doubleday, Page & Co.) 

The Great Wet Way, by Alan Dale, illus., $1.50 net. 
(Dodd, Mead & Co.) 

Trolley Folly, by Henry Wallace Phillips, illus. In color, 
$1.25. (Bobbs-Merrill Co.) 

The Menu Book, designed and Illus. by Clara Powers 
Wilson, $1.25. — Pippins and Peaches, by Mme. Qui 
Vive, Illus. In color, etc., $1. (Rellly & Britton Co.) 

The One and All Reciter, serious, humorous, and dra- 
matic selections, edited by Marshall Steele, $1. net. — 
The Woman In the Car, a guide for women motor- 
ists, by Dorothy Levitt, illus., $1. net. (John Lane 
Co.) 

Steps Along the Path, by Katherine H. Newcomb, $1.40 
net. — The Correspondent's Manual, for stenographers, 
typewriter operators and clerks, by William Hickox, 
revised and enlarged edition, 50 cts. net. (Lothrop, 
Lee & Shepard Co.) 

The Art and Science of Advertising, by George French, 
$2 net. (Sherman, French & Co.) 

The A B C of Skat, a simple exposition of the funda- 
mental rules governing the gtfme, by Agnes Henry, 
50 cts. net. (George W. Jacobs & Co.) 

Bridge, by Stephen B. Ay res, $1. net. ( Brentano's. ) 

Practical Golf, bv Walter G. Travis, revised edition, 
illus., $2. net. (Harper & Brothers.) 



202 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



liiST OF Neav Books. 



[The following list, containing 85 titles, includes books 
received by The Dial since its last isstte.] 

BIOaBAFHT AXD BEICINISCENCES. 
Q,neen Anne and Her Court. By P. F. William Ryan. In 

2 vols., illus. in photogravure, etc., 8vo. E. P. Dutton & Co. 

(6. net. 
Sir Georgre Mackenzie, King's Advocate of Rosshaugb : His 

Life and Times. 1636 (?)-1691. By Andrew Lang. Illus. in 

photogravure, 8vo, pp. 347. Longmans, Green, & Co. $4.20 net. 
BecoUections of Baron de Frenilly, Peer of France 

(1768-1828). Edited, with Introduction and Notes, by Arthur 

Chuquet; trans, by Frederic Lees. With portrait, 8vo, 

pp. 382. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $S. net. 
Sir "Walter Baleigrh. By Frederick A. Ober. Illus., 12mo, 

pp. 304. " Heroes of American History." Harper & Brothers. 

$1. net. 

HISTOBY. 

Historic Indiana : Being Chapters in the Story of the Hoosier 

State from the Romantic Period of Foreign Exploration 

and Dominion to the Present Time. By Julia Henderson 

Levering. Illus., 8vo, pp.538. G. P. Putnam's Sons. |3. net. 
Social lilfe at Borne in the Age of Cicero. By W. Warde 

Fowler, M.A. 8vo, pp. 362. Macmillan Co. |2.25 net. 
New England's Plantation, with the Sea Journal and Other 

Writings. By Rev. Francis Higgiuson. Limited edition; 

8vo, pp. 133. Salem, Mass.: Essex Book and Print Club. 

$3.50 net. 
Journals of the House of Burgesses of Virginia, 1752-1755, 

1756-1758. Edited by H. R. Mcllwaine. Limited edition; 

4to, pp. 551. Richmond, Va. : Virginia State Library. 
Germany in the Later Middle Ages, 1200-1500. By William 

Stubbs. D.D.; edited by Arthur Hassall, M.A, 8vo, pp. 255. 

Longmans, Green & Co. $2.25 net. 
The Story of Flsa. By Janet Ross and Nelly Ericksen ; illus. 

by Nelly Ericksen and from photographs. 16mo, pp. 418. 

" Mediaeval Town Series." Macmillan Co. $1.50 net. 

GENEBAIi LITEBATXTBE. 

The Ijast Letters of Edgar Allan Foe to Sarah Helen Whit- 
man. Edited by James A. Harrison. Limited edition ; with 
portraits in photogravure, large 8vo, pp. 50. G. P. Putnam's 
Sons. $2.50 net. 

Piccadilly to Pall Hall: Manners, Morals, and Man. By 
Ralph Nevill and Charles Edward Jemingham. Illus. in 
photogravure, 8vo, pp. 310. E. P. Dutton & Co. $3.50 net. 

The Cambridge History of Engrlish lilteratnre : Edited by 
A. W. Ward and A. R. Waller. Vol. III., Renascence and 
Reformation. 8vo, pp. 663. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $2.50 net. 

Why We IjOvo Linooln. By James Creelman. Illus., 12mo. 
pp. 170. Outing Publishing Co. $1.25 net. 

The Lincoln Tribute Book : Appreciations by Statesmen, 
Men of Letters, and Poets at Home and Abroad, together 
with a Lincoln Centenary Medal by Roin6. Edited by 
Horatio Sheafe Kraus. Illus. in photogravure, etc., ISmo, 
pp. 146. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $1.75 net. 

The Horal System of Dante's Inferno. By W. H. V. Reade, 
M.A. 8vo, pp. 438. Oxford University Press. $1.50. 

Iblis in Paradise : A Story of the Temptation. By George 
Roe. With frontispiece and decorations in color. 16mo. 
Henry Altemus Co. $1.25. 

NEW EDITIONS OF STANDARD. LITEBATTTBE. 
Po^mes Choisls de Victor Hugo, 1822-1865. Preface de L. 

Aguettant. With portrait in photogravure, 16mo, pp. 222. 

" Les Classiques Francais." G. P. Putnam's Sons. $1. net. 
Autobiography. By John Stuart Mill. New edition; 12mo. 

pp. 191. Longmans, Green, & Co. 50 cts. 

FICTION. 

Simeon Tetlow's Shadow. By Jeannette Lee. With frontis- 
piece in color, 12mo, pp.316. Century Co. $1.50. 

The Gorgeous Borgia: A Romance. By Justin Huntly 
McCarthy. With frontispiece in color, 12mo, pp, 324. Harper 
& Brothers. $1.50. 

The King of Arcadia. By Francis Lynde. Illus., 12mo, pp. 354. 
Charles Scribner's Sons. $1.50. 

Bill Truetell: A Story of Theatrical Life. By George H. 
Brennan ; illus. in color, etc., by James Montgomery Flagg. 
12mo, pp. 282. A. C. McClurg & Co. $1.50. 



Mad Barbara. By Warwick Deeping. With frontispiece in 

color, 12mo, pp. 373. Harper & Brothers. $1.50. 
"This, My Son" (Les Noellets). By Ren^ Bazin; trans, by 

Dr. A. S. Rappopart. 12mo, pp. 307. Charles Scribner's 

Sons. $1.25. 
Lorlmer of the Northwest. By Harold Bindloss. With 

frontispiece, 12mo. pp. 384. Frederick A. Stokes Co. $1.50. 
The Delafield Affair. By Florence Finch Kelly. Illus. in 

color, 12mo, pp. 422. A. C. McClurg & Co. $1.50. 
The Actress. By Louise Closser Hale. Illus., 12mo, pp. 328. 

Harper & Brothers. $1.50. 
The Glory of the Conquered. By Susan Glaspell. 12mo, 

pp. 376. Frederick A. Stokes & Co. $1.50. 
The Wild Geese. By Stanley J. Weyman. Illus., 12mo, pp. 325. 

Doubleday, Page & Co. $1.50. 
The Straw. ByRinaRamsay. 12mo, pp. 324. Macmillan Co. $1.50. 
Toung Nemesis. By Frank T. BuUen. Illus. in color, 12mo, 

pp. 372. E. P. Dutton & Co. $1.50. 
The Thoroughbred. By Edith Macvane. Illus., 12mo, pp. 303. 

G. W. Dillingham Co. $1.50. 
A Daughter of France. By Constance Elisabeth Maud. With 

frontispiece, 12mo, pp. 345. John Lane Co. $1.50. 
Mission Tales in the Days of the Dons. By Mrs. A. S. C. 

Forbes. Illus. and with decorations in color, 12mo, pp. 344. 

A. C. McClurg & Co. $1.50. 
A Besemblance, and Other Stories. By Clare Benedict. 

12mo, pp. 378. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $1.50. 
Jimbo : A Fantasy. By Algernon Blockwood. 12mo, pp. 225. 

Macmillan Co. $1.25 net. 
The Pow^er of a Lie. By Johan Bojer ; trans, from the Nor- 
wegian by Jessie Muir; with introduction by Hall Caine. 

12mo, pp. 246. Mitchell Kennerley. $1.25. 
The Journal of a Neglected Wife. By Mabel Herbert 

Umer. 12mo, pp. 253. B. W. Dodge & Co. $1.10 net. 
The Baven : The Love Story of Edgar Allan Poe. By George 

Hazelton. 12mo, pp.348. D. Appleton & Co. $1.50. 
Idolatry. By Alice Perrin. 12mo, pp. 396. Duffleld&Co. $1.50. 
The City of Splendid Night. By John W. Harding. Illus. in 

color, etc., 12mo, pp. 330. G. W. Dillingham Co. $1.50. 
The Trailers. By Ruth Little Mason. 12mo, pp. 365. Fleming 

H. RevellCo. $1.20 net. 
The Climbing Doom. By Lawrence Ditto Young. Illus., 

12mo, pp. 326. G. W. Dillingham Co. $1.50. 
Miss Minerva and William Green Hill. By Frances Boyd 

Calhoun. Illus., 12mo, pp. 212. Reilly & Britton Co. $1. 
The Lonesome Trail. By B. M. Bower. With frontispiece, 

12mo, pp. 297. G. W. Dillingham Co. $1.25. 

TBAVEL AND DESCBIPTION. 

My African Journey. By Winston Spencer Churchill, M.P. 
Illus. and with maps, 12mo, pp. 226. New York: George H. 
Doran Co. $1.50 net. 

A British Officer in the Balkans : The Account of a Journey 
through Dalmatia, Montenegro, Turkey in Austria. Magyar- 
land, Bosnia, and Hercegovina. By Major Percy E. Hen- 
derson. Illus., 8vo, pp. 302. J. B. Lippincott Co. $3.50 net. 

Through Finland. By A. Maccallum Scott. Illus., 12mo, 
pp. 291. E. P. Dutton & Co. $1.25 net. 

A Satchel Guide for the Vacation Tourist in Europe. By 
W. J. Rolfe. Edition for 1909; with maps, 16mo, pp. 398. 
Houghton Mifflin Co. $1.50 net. 

BELIGION AND THEOLOGY. 

The Preacher : His Person, Message and Method. A Book for 
the Class-room and Study. By Arthur S. Hoyt. 12mo, 
pp. 380. Macmillan Co. $1.50 net. 

The Gospel and the Church. By Alfred Loisy ; trans, by 
Christopher Home ; with Introduction by Newman Smyth, 
D.D. New edition ; 12mo, pp. 277. Charles Scribner's Sons. 
$1. net. 

A Commentary on the Holy Bible. By various writers; 
edited by J. R. Dummelow, M.A. With maps, 8vo, pp. 1092. 
Macmillan Co. $2.50 net. 

Studies in the Besurrection of Christ : An Argument. By 
Charles H. Robinson, M.A. 12mo, pp. 145. Longmans, Green, 
&Co. $1.25 net. 

Sayings of Buddha, the Iti-Vuttaka : A Pali Work of the 
Buddhist Canon. First translated, with Introduction and 
Notes, by Justin Hartley Moore, Ph.D. 8vo, pp. 142. "Colum- 
bia University Indo-Iranian Series," Vol. V. Macmillan Co. 
$1.50 net. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



203 



School Sermons. By Henry Augrustus Coit, D.D., LL.D. 

12mo, pp. 362. Moffat, Yard & Co. $1.50 net. 
A Working: Theologry. By Alexander MacCoU. 12mo, pp. 99. 

Charles Scribner's Sons. 75 cts. net. 
Week-Day Prayers. By Christian F. Beisner. ISmo, pp. 47. 

Jennintrs & Graham. 35 cts. net. 

. PHILOSOPHY. 
What Is Pragrmatism P By James Bissett Pratt, Ph.D. 12mo, 

pp. 256. Macmillan Co. 11.25 net. 
Introduction to the Genetic Treatment of the Paith- 

Consciousness in the Individual. By William Wilberforce 

Costin, Ph.D. 8vo, pp. 45. Baltimore, Md.: Williams & 

Wilkins Co. 66 cts. net. 

POIilTICS. — ECONOMICS. — SOCIOLOQY. 

Socialism in Theory and Practice. By Morris Hillquit. 
12mo, pp. 361. Macmillan Co. $1.50 net. 

Socialism in Local Government. By W. Q. Towler; with 
Introduction by H, M. Jessel. Second edition ; 12mo, pp. 336. 
Macmillan Co. $1.50 net. 

The Scottish Staple at Veere : A Study in the Economic 
History of Scotland. By John Davidson, M.A., and Alex- 
ander Qray, M.A. lUus., 8vo, pp. 453. Longmans, Green & 
Co. $4.50 net. 

The Churches and the Waere Earners : A Study of the 
Cause and Cure of Their Separation. By C. Bertrand 
Thompson. 12mo,pp. 229. Charles Scribner's Sons. $1. net. 

Wealth from Waste ; or, Gathering up the Fragments. By 
George Powell Perry. 12mo, pp. 108. Fleming H. Revell Co. 
50 cts. net. 

HEALTH AND HYGIENE. 

New Ideals in Healing. By Bay Stannard Baker. lUus., 
16mo, pp. 105. Frederick A. Stokes Co. 85 cts. net. 

Paroimony in Nutrition. By Sir James Crichton-Browne, 
M.D. 12mo, pp. 111. Funk & Wagnalls Co. 75 cts. net. 

Good Health and How We Won It, with an Account of the 
New Hygiene. By Upton Sinclair and Michael Williams. 
Illus., 12mo, pp. 302. Frederick A. Stokes Co. $1.20 net. 

Nervousness : A Brief and Popular Review of the Moral Treat- 
ment of Disordered Nerves. By Alfred T. Schofield, M.D. 
12mo, pp. 80. Moffat, Yard & Co. 50 cts. net. 

EDUCATION. 
The Reorganization of Our Colleges. By Clarence F. 

Birdseye. 12mo, pp. 410. Baker & Taylor Co. $1.75 net. 
A History of Education before the Middle Ages. By Frank 

Pierrepont Graves, Ph.D. 12mo, pp. 303. Macmillan Co. 

$1.10 net. 
Nature Study by Grades: Teachers' Book for Primary 

Grades. By Horace H. Cummings, B.S. 12mo, pp. 180. 

American Book Co. $1. net. 
Brief German Grammar. By Boscoe James Ham, M.A., and 

Arthur Newman Leonard, Ph.D. 16mo, pp. 241. Ginn& Co. 

90 cts. net. 
Schiller's Jungfirau von Orleans. Edited by Warren Wash- 
burn Florer, Ph.D. With frontispiece, 16mo, pp. 375. 

American Book Co. 70 cts net. 
The Young Citizen's Reader. By Paul S. Beinsch, Ph.D. 

Illus., 12mo, pp. 268. Benj. H. Sanborn & Co. 60 cts. net. 
Essentials In Civil Government : A Text-book for Use in 

Schools. By S. E. Forman, Ph.D. 12mo, pp. 254. American 

Book Co. 60 cts. net. 
Aiken's Husic Course in One Book. By Walter H. Aiken. 

8vo, pp. 208. American Book Co. 60 cts. net. 
Mlt Ranzel und Wanderstab von Emil Frommel. Edited by 

Wilhelm Bernhardt. With portrait, 16mo, pp. 144. D. C. 

Heath & Co. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

The Century of the Child. By Ellen Key. With portrait, 
12mo, pp. 339. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $1.50 net. 

Grammar of Lettering : A Handbook of Alphabets for Art 
Students, Architects, Decorators, Sign-writers, and all 
Classes of Craftsmen. By Andrew W. Lyons. Illus. in color, 
8vo, pp. 109. J. B. Lippincott Co. $2.50 net. 

The Art and Science of Advertising. By George French. 
Illus. in color, etc., 12mo, pp. 291. Sherman, French & Co. 
$2. net. 

Nirvana Days. By Gale Young Bice. 12mo. pp. 157. Double- 
day, Page & Co. 

(Continued on next page J 



THE NEW YORK BUREAU OF REVISION 

Established in 1880. LETTERS OF CRITICISM. EXPEBT 
REVISION OF MS8. Advice as to publication. Address 
DR. TITUS M. COAN, 70 FIFTH AVE., NEW YORK CITY 

RflOK'^ ALL OUT- OP- PRINT BOOKS APPLIED. 

■-'^-'^^*^*^* no matter on what subject. Write us. We can get 
you any book ever published. Please state wants. Catalogue fMe. 
BAKER'S GREAT BOOK SHOP, 14-16 Bright St., Bibminoham, Eno. 

EARLY WESTERN TRAVELS, 1748-1846 

" The series should be in every public, collegiate, 
and institutional library, to say nothing of private 
collections of respectable rank." — The Critic. 

THE ARTHUR H. CLARK CO. 

CLEVELAND, OHIO 

SEND FOR NEPF CATALOGUES 

OLD AND RARE NATURAL HISTORY, 
AMERICANA, Etc. 

FRANKLIN BOOKSHOP. 920 Walnut St.. PHILADELPHIA 

"TOM JONES " GRATIS i Send address and receive Fielding's 
masterpiece, cloth bound, all charges paid. Richest and rarest of 
novels; Scott called it " true to life and inimitable." Hard to find in 
bookstores and then costly. Send only $1. for the Pathfinder a year — 
the well-known national weekly review — and get book free. 

PATHFINDER PUBLISHING CO., Washington, D. C. 

M AGGS BROS. London, W. C, England 

Dealers in Rare Books, Prints, and Autographs 

Voyages and Travels. Early Printed Books. Illuminated 
MSS. First Editions. Sporting and Coloured Plate Books. 
General Literature. 

Also Fine Portraits and Fancy Subjects (chiefly Eighteenth 
Century). Early Engravings by the Old Masters. Modem 
Etchings by Whistler and others. 

Autograph Letters and MSS. of great Historic and Literary 
interest. 

Classified Catalogues post free on application. 

Customers^ "desiderata" searched for and reported 

free of charge. 



A New Volume in The Art of Life Series. 
Edward Howabd Griggs, Editor. 

SELF-MEASUREMENT 

A Scale of Human Values luilh Directions for Personal Application 
By WILLIAM DE WITT HYDE, President of Bowdoin CoUege. 

At all bookstores. 50 cts net; postpaid, 55 cts. 
B. W. HUEBSCH PUBLISHER NEW YORY CITY 



WILLIAM R. JENKINS CO. 



Publishers, Booksellers, 
Stationers, and Printers 
861-853 SI XTH AVE.. Cor. 48th St., NEW YORK 

FRENCH 

AND OTHER 
rOBBION 

BOOKS 

Complete cata- 
logs on request. 



BEAD CUB 

ROMANS CHOISIS. 26 Titles. Paper 
60 cts., cloth 85 cts. per volume. CONTES 
CHOISIS. 24 Titles. Paper 25 cts., cloth 
40 cts. per volume. Masterpieces, pure, by well- 
known authors. Read extensiveljy- by classes; 
notes in English. List on application. 



HENRY BLACKWELL 

University Place and 10th Street 
NEW YORK 

BOOK BINDING 

PLAIN AND ARTISTIC 
IN VELLUM. LEVANT, MOROCCO. CALF. AND RUSSIA 



204 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



LIST OF NEW BOOKS — continued 
The Scientific Aspects of liUther Bnrbank's Work. By 

David Starr Jordan and Vernon L. Kellogg. Illua., 8vo, 

pp.115. San Francisco: A. M. Robertson. $1.75 net. 
Steps Alone: the Path. By Katherine H. Newcomb. 12mo, 

pp. 287". Lothrop, Lee & Shepard Co. $1.40 net. 
Arizona Bibllofirraphy : A Private Collection of Arizoniana. 

By J. A. Munk. Second edition ; with portrait, 12mo, pp. 98. 

Los Angeles, Cal.: J. A. Munk. 



THE 

Mosher 
Books 

The only collec- 
tion of genu- 
ine hand-made 
paper hooks at 
popular prices 
in (America. 



THE 

MOSHER BOOKS 

CATALOGUE 



My New Catalogue covering 
every title I have published, 
1891-1908 inclusive, is now 
ready, and will be mailed free 
on request. It is without ques- 
tion a bibelot in itself and as 
choice a production as I can 
hope to offer. 

Thomas B.MosHER 

PORTLAND, MAINE 



Authors Seeking a Publisher 

Should communicate with 
the Cochrane Publishing Co. 
450 Tribune Building, New 
York City 

NEW JERSEY 

HISTORY, GENEALOGY, STATE BEFORTS 

TRAVER'S OLD BOO K STORE. Trenton, N.J. 

TVDEUIDITIkie • Dramatic, Literary. 4 cents per hundred words. 
ITrtWnlllNOi References. M. S. Gii-pateic, 156 Fifth Ave., N. Y. 

1? ADC ROOK^^ t Catalogues Issued Regulablt. 
1x/\I\.Ej D\J\JE^tJ . Next one bblates to Lincoln, 
Civil Wab. and Slaveey. Sent Feee. 

W. F. STOWE, 167 CUNTON AVE., KINGSTON. N. Y. 



MANUSCRIPTS 
TYPEWRITTEN 



EXPERT SERVICE 

MODERATE PEES 
L. E. Swartz, 626 Newport, Chicago 



i:Es I 

eago I 



R A RP *"^d unusual BOOKS on South America, 
M\r\r\.M:t Texas, Mexico, West Indies, etc. 

LATIN-AMERICA BOOK COMPANY, 
Catalogue on application. 203 Front St., New Yobk City. 



I 



FINE BOOKS RECENTLY IMPORTED 

Described in our Monthly Catalogrue — March Issue — 
FREE on application. JOSEPH McDONOUGH CO., 

98 State Street, ALBANY, N. Y. (Established 1870.) 

F. M. HOIiLY 

Authors' and Publishers' Kepresentatlve 

Circulars sent upon request. 156 Fifth Avenue. New Yobk. 

UfpjTCpO TRY THE SERVICE OP "T. L. T. N." IT IS 
fini I tnO TQ YOU SOMETHING POSITIVELY AS NEW 
AS HELPFUL. ADDRESS P.O. BOX 69, BROOKLYN, N.Y. 

IN ORDER TO INTRODUCE THE WORKS OF 

Robert G. IngersoU 

DRESDEN EDITION 

we will send, upon receipt of ten cents in stamps, to cover 
costs, portrait of Ingersoll, autogp^aphed in facsimile, printed 
in photogravure by hand on Japanese paper, and interesting 
circular matter descriptive of the Dresden Edition. 

DRESDEN PUBLISHING COMPANY, Dept. B 

No. 18 East 17th Street, New York, N.Y. 



OUR ASSISTANCE 

IX the pubchase of books, especialy babe ob scabce ones, 

IS ALWAYS AVAILABLE, AND HAS HELPED MANY CABEFCL BUYEBS. 
WE SEND OUB CATALOGUE ON BEQUEST. 

THE TORCH PRESS BOO K SHOP. CEDAR RAPIDS. IOWA 

STUDY and PRACTICE of FRENCH in Four Parts 

L. C. BoNAME, Author and Publisher, 1930 Chestnut St., Philadelphia. 
Well-graded series for Preparatory Schools and Colleges. No time 
wasted in superficial or mechanical work. French Text: Numerous 
exercises in conversation, translation, composition. Part I. (60 cts.): 
Primary giade; thorough drill in Pronunciation. Part II. (90 cts.): 
Intermediate grade; Essentials of Grammar; 4th edition, revised, with 
Vocabulary; most carefully graded. Part 777. ($1.00): Composition, 
Idioms, Syntax; meets requirements for admission to college. Part IV. 
(35c.): AaJid6ooJfco/Prora«raciffl/iore for advanced grade; concise and com- 
prehensive. Sent to teachers for examination, with a view to introduction, 

THE H. R. HUNTTING COMPANY 

SPRINGFIELD, MASS., 

issue catalogues of Standard Publications, Reference Books, 
Rare and Out-of-Print Books, and would be pleased to mail 
same in response to a postal card request. A prominent 
librarian said to us: "I find your catalogues the most inter- 
esting of any which come to me, and your prices as a whole 
the most reasonable." 



MR. YEATS'S BEST-KNOWN BOOK 
REDUCED FROM $1.25 NET TO 50 CTS. 

THE WIND AMONG THE REEDS 

By WILLIAM BUTLER YEATS 

New York: The John Lane Co. $1.25 net. 

Our special price, 50 cts. 

IN 'The Wind among the Reeds' Mr. Yeats 
becomes completely master of himself and of 
his own resources. ... It is life, an extraordi- 
nary intense inner life, that I find in this book 
of lyrics, which may also seem to be one long 
'hymn to intellectual beauty.' ... In this vol- 
ume, so full of a remote beauty of atmosphere, 
of a strange beauty of figure and allusion, there 
is a ' lyrical cry ' which has never before, in his 
pages, made itself heard with so penetrating a 
monotony. . . . Here, at last, is poetry which has 
found for itself a new form, a form really modern, 
in its rejection of every artifice, its return to the 
natural chant out of which verse was evolved ; 
and it expresses, with a passionate quietude, the 
elemental desires of humanity, the desire of love, 
the desire of wisdom, the desire of beauty. 

— Arthur Symons. 



Sent post-free to any address on receipt of price. 

BROWNE'S BOOKSTORE 

FINE ARTS BUILDING CHICAGO 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



205 



THE SPRING "BOOKS OF THE JOHN McBRIDE COMPANY 



Love Letters of Famous Poets and Novelists 

Edited by LIONEL STRACHEY and WALTER LITTLEFIELD. 

Decorative Cover. Printed in two colors. Demy 8vo. $2.00 net. 

BYRON — VICTOR HUGO — POPE — BURNS — SCHILLER — LYTTON — CONGREVE — 
KEATS — GOETHE — HEINE — POE — BALZAC — SCOTT, Etc. 



A Book of Witches 

By OLIVER MADOX HUEFFER. Fron- 
tispiece in colors by W. Heath Robinson. 
Demy 8vo $2.50 net. 



A Favorite of Napoleon: 

Memoirs of Mademoiselle George. By PAUL 
CHERAMY. Illustrated with photogra- 
vure portraits. Demy 8vo . . $2.50 net. 



The Revelation to the 
Monk of Evesham 

In the year 1196, concerning the Places of 
Purgatory and Paradise. Rendered into 
modern English by VALERIAN PAGET. 
i2mo $1.50 net. 



The King Who Never Reigned 

Being Memoirs upon Louis XVII. By 
ECKARD and NAUNDORFF, with a 
Preface by Jules Lemaitre. With fifteen 
illustrations, photogravure and half-tone. 
Demy 8vo $3 -50 net. 



THE JOHN McBRIDE COMPANY 



NEW YORK CITY 



Pioneer Days on Puget Sound 

By AKTH0R A. Dbnny (the Father of Seattle). 
Puget Sound Historical Series, No. 1. 

The most important historical reprint relating to the Puget Sound 
Country and the City of Seattle. The only book written by one of the 
original founders of SEATTLE. Profusely illustrated by picturss, 
maps, and original drawings unobtainable elsewhere. 

Important iu connection with the coming A. Y. P. Exposition. 
Cloth, 12mo, 152 pages. Limited to 850 copies, numbered and signed. 
Only 150 copies remain unsold. Price $2.00 net. Postage 10 cents 
extra. Price to be advanced May 1. 

REMINISCENCES OF SEATTLE, Washington Territoi7 

And the U.S. Sloop-of-War " Decatur," during the Indian War of 1 855-6 

By the late T. S. Phelps, Rear Admiral, U. S. N. 

Puget Sound Historical Series, No. 2. 

This reprint is the only account of the Indian Attack on Seattle by 

a naval eye-witness ever put before the public. Copious footnotes have 

been added, gathered from authoritative sources, making this limited 

edition distinctly valuable. 

8vo, 48 pages. Price: Cloth, $1.20 net; postage G cents. Paper 
60 cents net; postage 4 cents. 

THE ALICE HARRIMAN CO.. Publishers, Denny Bldg..SEATTLE,U.S. A. 

MILLENNIUM AT HAND 

By HARRY P. HOWARD 

A Book on the Latest Discoveries in Science, and What 

Modem Science Can Now Interpret. 

Rev. 21:4, 22:1, 2: " And there shall be no more death, neither sor- 
row, nor crying; neither any more pain. And he showed me a pure 
river of water of life, and the tree of life, and the leaves of the tree 
were for the healing of the nations." 

Kzek. 47: 12: " And the leaf thereof for medicine." 

Gen. 3:6: " When the woman saw that the tree was good for food, 
pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to make one wise, she took 
of the fruit thereof, and did eat." 

Are you weeping over the grraves of your dear ones and have 
not read Proofs of Life after Death, by Crooks, Savage, or 
Hyslop ? Are you bringing innocent children into the world and 
not read how to Emancipate Bad Heredity by Fowler, Riddle, 
or Wood? Let your boys and girls read how the woman was 
Deceived with the Wine Cup, by Bartholow, Gunn, or Brun- 
ton. These learned authors are largely quoted in this new book. 

Bound in cloth, 400 pages. $2.00 postpaid. 
HOWARD PUBUSHING CO.. ROCHESTER, N. H., U. S. A. 



C. J. PRICE 

1004 Walnut St., Philadelphia, Pa. 

IMPORTER OF CHOICE AND RARE BOOKS 

FRENCH AND ENGLISH 

Invites the attention of Book-Lovers and those forming 
Fine Libraries to his collection of First and Choice Editions 
of Standard Authors, Americana, books illustrated by 
Cruikshank, Leech, and " Phiz," first editions of Dickens, 
Thackeray, Lever, Leigh Hunt, etc. Devoting his attention 
exclusively to the choicer class of books, and with experi- 
enced agents abroad, he is able to guarantee the prompt 
and eflBcient execution of all orders. 

Frequent catalogues of Select Importations are issued 
and sent gratis on demand. 



OUR LIBRARY SERVICE 

'\l/E have recently supplemented our service to Libraries, by 
" ' procuring Out-of-Print and Scarce Books, and by importing 
English books. 

Our EDUCATIONAL CATALOGUE contains a fuU Ust 
of Supplementary Reading, indicating the grade to which each 
title is adapted. 

Our CLEARANCE CATALOGUE contains overstock at 
special prices, and an alphabetical arrangement by authors of all 
cheap editions of Recent Popular Fiction and Standard Library 
12mos in one list. 

Our LIBRARY CATALOGUE of 3500 approved titles, fol- 
lowing A. L. A. lines, is of great convenience to small libraries. 

Our MONTH LY BULLETIN notices promptly every new 
book of importance. 

These Catalogues are sent on request. Three notable features of 
our service are : promptness, thoroughness, and low prices. 

THE BAKER & TAYLOR CO. 

WHOLESALE DEALERS IN THE BOOKS OF ALL PUBLISHERS 

33 East Seventeenth Street, New York 



206 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



NOW READY EVERYWHERE 

THE BIG MID-SEASON NOVEL 

By FREDERICK ORIN BARTLETT 

The Web of the Golden Spider 

ILLUSTRATED BY FISHER AND RELYEA. $1.50. 

CHere is pure romance, told with a dash and a joy in the story 

that carry the reader completely away. 

COut of the darkness the Girl and the Man meet, only to be swept 

into the toils of an adventurer mad with the lure of gold, and as 

suddenly thrust apart. 
CThen comes the rush of the story, as, swiftly and with desperate chances by land 
and sea, they follow the golden trail of daring. 

"'The Web of the Golden Spider,' starts off with a bang," says the Philadelphia 
Inquirer. ' ' Indeed there is no modern tale which contains so many astonishing 
and unexpected turns. The great charm of this story is that the interest begins on the 
Detail from frontispiece first page and never lets up to the very last." 

"The lure of hidden treasure," says the Chicago Inter Ocean, "grips men's hearts 
to-day as surely as it fascinated the adventurers of bygone centuries, and Mr. Bartlett's 

expedition to El Dorado is such an enticing affttir one has half a mind to knock off prosy business, buy a 

cutlass and a brace of pistols, and enlist in the adventure." 




in full color 
by Harriaon Fisher 



SMALL, MAYNARD AND COMPANY PUBLISHERS BOSTON 







OF INTEREST 
to LIBRARIANS 


OOOK publishers and book journals are 
•*— ' alike sustained by a book public. The 
people who read book journals are the ones 
who buy books. Daily papers and miscel- 
laneous journals have miscellaneous read- 
ers, some of whom are bookish people. All 
the readers of a book joiu-nal are bookish 
people. The Dtat, is preeminently a book 
journal, published solely in the interests 
of the book class, — the literary and culti- 
vated class. 


T T /"E are now handling a larger per- 
' ' centage of orders from Public 
Libraries, School and College 
Libraries, than any other dealer in 
the entire country. This is because 
our book stock, covering all classes 
and grades of books, is more com- 
plete than that of any other book- 
seller in the United States, enabling 
us to make full and prompt ship- 
ments. Also, because we have a well 
equipped department looking after 
this special branch of the business. 


nPTTF. DIAL is more generally consulted 
I and depended upon by Librakians in 
making up orders for books than any 
other American critical journal; it circu- 
lates more widely among RETAlii book- 
sellers than any other journal of its class ; 
it is the accustomed literary guide and aid 
of thousands of private book-buyers, 
covering every section of the country. 


A. C. McCLURG & CO. 

UBRARY DEPARTMENT CHICAGO 



1909.] THE DIAL 207 



The Publisher's Problem 

How to Reach Book Buyers 

In the West this problem is solved by one Chicago newspaper. 
No other medium west of the Alleghanies can carry your 
advertisements into the homes of so many book-buying men 
and women as The Chicago Record-Herald. This is because 
it has for years taken special pains to cater to the tastes 
of cultured people. 

During the year 1908 the average daily net sold circulation of 
The Chicago Record-Herald exceeded 141,000, and the average 
Sunday net sold circulation exceeded 197,000, and the price 
of The Record-Herald is two cents per copy daily and five 
cents Sunday. 

It is the favorite newspaper among intelligent people in 
school, college, and book-loving circles in Chicago and the 
vicinity. It has the largest and most influential literary 
department of any newspaper west of New York. 

The circulation books and the advertising books are open 
to all. The Record-Herald refuses to print "get rich quick " 
and other deceptive advertisements. 

In fact, if you want to reach the people who read good books 
you can do so most directly and economically by advertising in 

The Chicago Record-Herald 



208 THE DIAL [March 16, 1909. 

SOME OF HENRY HOLT AND COMPANY'S SPRING BOOKS 

FTJSLISHED AT 84 WEST THIRTY-THIBD STREET, NEW YORK 

FICTION 

Bashford's THE PILGRIM'S MARCH Ready. .$1.50. 

A novel of unusual merit. About a light-hearted pilgrim to the shrine of art who fell among puritans. 

" Somewhat of the temperament of Miss Sinclair's ' Divine Fire.' . . . Reaches a powerful climax with 

intensely dramatic effect. . . . Will be one of the notable books of the season." — Washington {D.C.) Star. 

Shaw and Beckwith's THE LADY OF THE DYNAMOS Heady. $1.50. 

An appealing love story of a young electrical engineer and an English girl in Ceylon. 

Eaton and Underbill's THE RUNAWAY PLACE April. Probable price, $1.25. 

A fanciful idyll of Central Park that will attract attention. 

Parker's HOMESPUN By the author of " Way Down East." May. $1.50. 

A story of New England village life that is quite exceptional, with much gowl realism and plenty of 
humor. 

Miller's LESS THAN KIN April. Probable price, $1.25. 

By the author of " A Modern Obstacle," etc. An amusing and clever story of a clean-cut young fellow from 
South America, who is welcomed as a prodigal son into an exclusive New York family of entire strangers. 

NON-FICTION 

IN THE AMERICAN NATURE SERIES 

Holder and Jordan's FISH STORIES Ready. $1.75 net. 

Alleged and experienced, with a little history, natural and unnatural. With colored plates and many 
illustrations. Comprises fishing lore, accounts of unusual exploits, and good fish stories. 

Sternberg's THE LIFE OF A FOSSIL HUNTER Ready. $1.60 net. 

A most interesting autobiography of the oldest and best-known explorer in this field, 

Knowlton and Ridgway's BIRDS OF THE WORLD March. Probable price, $7.00 net. 

A popular account. The most comprehensive one-volume bird book. Sixteen colored plates and 
several hundred other illustrations. 



Carter's WHEN RAILROADS WERE NEW March. Probable price; $2.50 net. 

For general readers. Covers the railroad builders and the picturesque history of the great systems up 
to the time they cease to be unusual and become commercial. With 10 illustrations. 

Coolidge's THE CHINESE IN THE UNITED STATES April. Probable price, $1.50 net. 
A valuable addition to the American Public Problems Series. Earlier volumes are Hall's " Immigration " 
and Haynes's " Election of Senators." 

Dudley and Kellor's ATHLETIC GAMES IN THE EDUCATION OF WOMEN 

An exposition of conditions and a manual for instructors and players. Keady. $1.2i> net. 

FIncb's THE BLUE AND THE GRAY Ready. $1.30 net. 

Besides the famous title poem this contains some forty-five other pieces, with an introduction by 
Andrew D. White. 

Seaman's SALVAGE Ready. $1.25 net. 

By the Editor of Punch and author of " Borrowed Plumes " and " A Harvest of Chaff." 

FIFTY YEARS OF DARWINISM March. Probable price, $2.00 net. 

Eleven centennial addresses in honor of Charles Darwin, delivered before the Ameiican Association for 
the advancement of Science, January, 1909. 

McPberson's FREIGHT TARIFFS AND TRAFFIC April. Probable price, $2.00 net. 

By the author of " The Working of the Railroads." An elementary study of the freight rates of the 
railroads of the United States in their economic relations. 

JUVENILES BY CHICAGO AUTHORS 

Burton's BOB'S CAVE BOYS Illustrated by Victor Perard. March. $1.50. 

A sequel to " The Boys of Bob's HiU " already in its third edition. 

Hunting's WITTER WHITEHEAD'S OWN STORY Illustrated by H. S. De Lay. March. $1.25. 

A story for boys, about a lucky splash of whitewash, some stolen silver, and a house that was n't vacant. 

THE DIAL PBESS, FINE ARTS BUILDING, CHICAGO 



THE 




lAL 



^ SEMI-MONTHLY JOURNAL OF 



Edited by 
FRANCIS F. BROWNE 



Y^'^Tsfi^^^' CHICAGO, APRIL 1, 1909. 



10 cts. a copi/. /Fink Arts Building 
$2. a year. \ 203 Michigan Blvd. 



JPI^IL PUBLICATIONS 



DRAGON'S BLOOD By HENRY MILNER RIDEOUT 

A brilliant tale of adventure, danger, and love in China during a native uprising, notable for its rich 
description, varied but real characters, strong, stirring situations, and the mystery of the Far East. 

Illustrated in color. $1.20 net. Postage extra. 

OUR NAVAL WAR WITH FRANCE By GARDNER W. ALLEN 

A scholarly and readable account of a little-known episode in our history. Dr. Allen tells an interesting 
story of the hostilities between the United States and France during the last years of the 18th century 
which furnished some of the most stirring exploits in the early history of our navy. 

Illustrated. $1.60 net. Postage extra. 

THE STORY OF NEW NETHERLAND By WILLIAM E. GRIFFIS 

In this volume Dr. Qriffis gives a vivid account of the coming of Dutch settlers to America, and the 
development of Dutch power and influence, especially in our Middle States. 

Fully illustrated. $1.26 net. Postage extra. 

A LINCOLN CONSCRIPT By HOMER GREENE 

An absorbing story of the Civil War, in which Lincoln figures prominently. The story centres about 
Two South Carolinians, a father and son, living in Pennsylvania, one detested by his neighbors as a 
" copperhead," the other an intense patriot. The stirring events which take place before and after they 
enter the war will hold the attention of every young reader. With 8 illustrations. $1.60. 

THE GREAT DIVIDE By WILLIAM VAUGHN MOODY 

The most brilliant dramatic success on the American stage in the last three years, issued for the first 
time in book form. An important contribution to American literature. $1.00 net. Postpaid $1.10. 

HUMAN NATURE IN POLITICS By GRAHAM WALLAS 

In this volume Mr. Wallas analyzes existing forces and tendencies and presents a new statement of the 
problem of democracy. The fresh light thrown by recent experiments in government upon such problems 
as the proper position of the expert in legislation and administration, the struggle of interests in politics, 
and the new possibilities of international relations, forms the subject-matter of several chapters. 

$1.60 net. Postage extra. 

WHEN LINCOLN DIED, and Other Poems By E. W. THOMSON 

A collection of the work of one of the leading American poets of to-day. Mr. Thomson is an accomplished 
master of poetic style and his poetry is notable among contemporary volumes for the vivid life that 
moves in it. $1.26 net. Postage extra. 

GEOFROY TORY By AUGUSTE BERNARD 

An Important contribution to the history of engraving and typography. This new Riverside Press edi- 
tion harmonizes admirably with the spirit and feeling of Tory's crisp and sparkling designs. Some of 
these are familiar to readers of the several monographs on the subject, but many have been taken from 
original sources and are here reproduced for the first time. Riverside Press edition, limited to not more 
than 350 numbered copies. Illustrated. Tall 4to. $37.60 net. Postpaid. 

THE SILVER CUP By CHARLES CUTHBERT HALL 

A series of practical religious talks delivered by Dr. Hall to the " children and youth " of his church. 
Like all of his other work, they are exceptionally fine in quality and have a marked fitness for their 
purpose. $1.26 net. Postpaid $1.37. 

THE VALLEY OF SHADOWS By FRANCIS GRIERSON 

A significant volume giving a vivid account of the author's early years in Illinois and Missouri. The 
book pictures a most interesting epoch in American history that has seldom been equalled in faithfulness 
and spirit, and gives recollectidns of Lincoln of special historic moment. $2.00 net. Postage extra. 



BOSTON 



ILLUSTRATED SPRING BULLETIN SENT FREE ON REQUEST 

HOUGHTON MIFFLIN COMPANY 



NEfF YORK 



210 



THE DIAL 



[April 1, 



A NEW HISTORICAL WORK OF FIRST IMPORTANCE 

THE CONQUEST OF THE GREAT 

NORTHWEST 

By Agnes C. Laut 

THE romantic account of the daring " gentlemen adventurers " 
who were concerned in the exploration and development of the 
northwestern part of North America. The author obtained her 
information from archives and documents never before touched by the 
historian, and the result is a work of great value and thrilling interest. 

ACCORDING TO 

The New York Times : " The historian who catches the spirit of a people or a movement is 
the true historian of humanity. . . . Agnes C. Laut has written a history of this sort." 

The Chicago Tribune : " Outside of Parkman's pages there is no more stirring chronicle of 
American history than that which Miss Laut has given us." 

Boston Herald: "Her history carries conviction at all points, and seems to reproduce the 
actual atmosphere of the days whereof it speaks." 

CLOTH. FULLY ILLUSTRATED. TWO VOLUMES IN BOX. 
PRICE, $5.00 NET. 



THE DOLL BOOK 

Besides conveying to the student an idea of the Doll's standing in matters relating to history, 
sociology, and ethnology, this book, by reason of its entertaining subject matter and beautiful 
illustrations in color and half-tone, is especially interesting to mother and child. By Laura 
B. Starr. $3-00 net. 



BY THE SHORES 
OF ARCADY 

Fannie Hardy Eckstorm 
says : " Can the quiet books 
compete with the sensational 
ones ? Remember The Lady 
of the Decoration and Mrs. 
IViggs of the Cabbage Patch., 
and read this and see." This 
book is unlike either, but it is 
quiet — and charming. By 
Isabel Graham Eaton. 

Price $1.25. 



WHY WE LOVE 
LINCOLN 

Mr. James Creelman's trib- 
ute to the Captain who stood 
at the Nation's helm during 
the stormy period of the 
Civil War cannot but em- 
phasize John Hay's estimate 
of Lincoln as the " greatest 
character since Christ." It 
is written with great sym- 
pathy and understanding. 

Price $1.23 net. 



ALINE OF THE 
GRAND WOODS 

This is a novel for discrimin- 
ating people — one that will 
remind readers of the time 
when authors had not yet 
learned to write potboilers. 
It tells a dramatic story of 
the "Cajuns" in the rice 
fields of Louisiana, and is a 
refreshing piece of literature. 
By Nevil G. Henshaw. 

Price $1.50. 



THE OUTING PUBLISHING COMPANY, 35 WEST 31st STREET, NEW YORK 



1909] THE DIAL 211 



DUFFIELD & COMPANY'S SPRING LIST 

NEW FICTION 

Hf^ /-ti .r« u T-.,!^- Authorof'Molilre: A Biography," "The Crimson Wing," "The Land of the Castanet," 
. V^. l,^natrieia- 1 ayior •• two women and a FooI," etc. 

"FAME'S PATHWAY" 

A novel by the distinguished biographer of Moliere, dealing with the early life and love romance of the great French 
dramatist. A book full of character study and action. Pictures by " Job." $1.60 postpaid. 

H. Handel Richardson " MAURICE GUEST " 

A novel of musical student life at Leipzig. " There can be no doubt that Mr. Richardson's romantic realism is the 
best work of fiction of the present year." —London Daily New*. $1.50 postpaid. 

Mrs. Henry Dudeney " RACHEL LORIAN " 

"A romance of life and temperament well worked out ... set before us sympathetically, and with skill and 
Tpovier." — Detroit Free Press. $1.50 postpaid. 

Alice Perrin "IDOLATRY" 

" A real triumph, for in this book Mrs. Perrin treads on territory scrupulously avoided by the ordinary Anglo-Indian 
novelist — that occupied by the missionaries. " — London Times. $1.60 postpaid^ 

Helen Mackay "HOUSES OF GLASS" 

stories and Sketches of Paris, illustrated by E. F. Folsom. Paper covers. " They are all better than the average 
of De Maupassant, and some of them press his best very close. They smack of genius " — Walter Littlefield 
in Chicago Record-Herald. $1.00 net : by mall, $1.05. 

Lawrence North "SYRINX" 

A novel by a new author, with humor and pathos cleverly worked together: the story of an old scholar in love with 
a young and capricious girl. Frontispiece by John Rae. $1.60 postpaid. 



Third Edition " TONO-BUNGAY " Third Edition 

in London is being received with an almost unanimous chorus of praise. Mr. W. L. Courtney writes of it in the 
Daily Telegraph in the following ecstatic terms: ' We think that 

"TONO-BUNGAY" 

will prove to be Mr. H. G. Wells's ' David Copperfield.' . . . One of the most significant novels of modem times, 
one of the sincerest and most unflinching analyses of the dangers and perils of our contemporary life that any writer 
has had the courage to submit to his own generation. Mr. Wells has certainly done nothing to approach this book, 
both for courage and conviction.' — Boston Evening Transcript. $1.60 postpaid. 



SECOND EDITIONS 
Marguerite Bryant "CHRISTOPHER HIBBAULT, ROADMAKER" 

"The story is well worth while; not many of the new novels of recent months are more so. It has a distinctive 
quality, a strength that is convincing." — Brooklyn Daily Eagle. $1.50 postpaid. 

W. Somerset Maugham " THE MAGICIAN " 

"The writer of ' Jack Straw ' and ' Lady Frederick ' — plays in which John Drew and Ethel Barrymore have starred — 
and of a half-score of more or less well-known works, puts his name to this nightmare of a singiilar fascination over 
the reaAer." — Detroit Free Press. $1.50 postpaid. 

Theodora Peck Author of " Hester of the Grants." 

"THE SWORD OF DUNDEE" 

" A story that will charm the hearts of true Scots." — Toronto Mail and Empire. Pictures by John Rae. 

$1.60 postpaid. 
IMPORTANT RECENT PUBLICATIONS 

" Letters of Mrs. James G. Blaine " Edited by Harriet S, Blaine Beale. 

" One of the most interesting collections of American letters that have appeared in many years." — Chicago Tribune. 
" In their unaffected charm they give a picture of political life all the more valuable from the fact of their private and 
domestic nature." — San Francisco Argonaut. 2 vols., cloth, grllt top, boxed. $4.00 net ; by post, $4,16. 

NEW VOLUMES IN THE MEDIEVAL LIBRARY 

" The Book of the Divine Consolation of St. Angela Da Foligno " 

Translated from the Italian by Mary Q. Steegmann, with an Introduction ; with reproductions of the woodcuts of 
the original edition, Genoa, 1536. 

" Early English Romances of Friendship " 

Edited, in modern English, with Introduction and Notes, by Edith Rickert. Illustrated by photogravures after 
illuminations in contemporary MSS. Brown pigskin, antique clasps. $2.00 net ; by post, $2.08. 

The Lamb Shakespeare for the Young " A NIGHT WITH SHAKESPEARE " 

A charming programme for school entertainments. Leather, $1.00 ; cloth, 80 cents. 

AT ALL BOOKSELLERS OR FROM THE PUBLISHERS 

DUFFELD^COMBW 

36WEST37TStSC^NEW YORK 



212 



THE DIAL. 



[AprU 1, 





CONQUERED 

By SUSAN GLASPELL 

This is the story of a love that 
changes the face of the world, 
overrides the impossible, and lifts 
defeat into wonderful victory. 

" Unless Susan Glaspell is an assumed name 
covering that of some already well-known 
author — and the book has qualities so out 
of the ordinary in American fiction and so 
individual that this does not seem likely — 
'The Glory of the Conquered' brings for- 
ward a new author of fine and notable gifts." 
— New York Times. 

Cloth, J2mo, $ I. SO postpaid. 



MASTERPIECES IN COLOR 

EDITED BY LEMAN HARE 

Each 6x8 inches, brown boards, with 8 reproductions 
of the artist's work in full, accurate color. Text 
by recognized critics. Price each 65 cents net ; post- 
paid 73 cents. Full leather, gilt top, |x.so net; 
postpaid $1.58. 



January 

Van Dyck 
Da Vinci 



NEW VOLUMES 
March 

Whistler 
Rubens 



May 

Constable 
Memling 



Twenty volumes previously published. Send 2-cent 
stamp for sample illustration. Illustrated circular of 
all our art publications on application. 



Write for complete information about 
our spring novels and new publications. 



FREDERICK A. STOKES COMPANY 

Publishers 333 Fourth Ave. New York 



OF INTEREST 
to LIBRARIANS 



T T rE are now handling a larger per- 
' ^ centage of orders from Public 
Libraries, School and College 
Libraries, than any other dealer in 
the entire country. This is because 
our book stock, covering all classes 
and grades of books, is more com- 
plete than that of any other book- 
seller in the United States, enabling 
us to make full and prompt ship- 
ments. Also, because we have a well 
equipped department looking after 
this special branch of the business. 

A. C. McCLURG & CO. 

UBRARY DEPARTMENT CHICAGO 



M^ 

U 

^ 



U 

u 
u 
Mr 



ir ir 31 It -^xr 



-M 



ANY BOOK I 

advertised or 
mentioned in 
this issue may 
be hoBfrowj 

CDROWKFS 
DOOKSTOKE 



The Fine Arts Building 
'Michiqan'Blvd., Chicago 



^r -rr -i r :ir Tir: 



" 



^u 



1909.] THE DIAL 218 



BOOKS OF GENERAL INTEREST 



Unofficial Letters of an Official's Wife 

By EDITH MOSES. A volume of actual letters, written from the Philippines, and giving a vivid 
picture of the domestic life of the natives as seen and described by a brilliant woman. 

12mo. Cloth. $1.50 net. 

Modern Educators and Their Ideals 

By TADASU MIS A WA, Ph.D. Sympathetically and significantly, Dr. Misawa gives a general idea 
of the educational views of philosophers of modern times. 12mo. Cloth. $1.50 net. 

A History of German Literature 

By CALVIN THOMAS, LL.D., Gebhard Professor of the Germanic Languages and Literatures, 
Columbia University. A selection of the most representative and pregnant historical facts. 

12mo. Cloth. $1.50 net. 

Problems of City Government 

By LEO S. ROWE, Ph.D., LL.D., Professor of Political Science, University of Pennsylvania. Its 
purpose is to present an analysis of the general principles involved in city growth. 

12mo. Cloth. $1.50 net. 

My Story 

By HALL CAINE. Illustrated by intimate and hitherto unpublished photographs selected by the 
author. In this account of his life the famous novelist incorporates the records of his friendship and 
acquaintance with many of the most eminent literary men of the last century. 

8vo, Cloth, gilt top. $2.00 net. 

Princesse de Lamballe 

By B. C. HARDY. A full account of this most pathetic victim of "The Reign of Terror," the 
most loyal friend and confidant of Marie Antoinette. Handsomely illustrated from contemporary 
portraits. Demy 8vo. $3,50 special net. 

The War-Time Journal of a Georgia Girl 

By ELIZA FRANCIS ANDREWS. "This book should take first rank as one of the most 
valuable of the remarkable number of accounts of life in the Confederacy which have been finding 
their way into print." — The Nation. Illustrated from contemporary photographs. 
^ ^ 8vo. Decorated cloth cover, gilt top. $2.50 net. 

Viva Mexico! 

By CHARLES M. FLANDRAU. Mexico as seen through the eyes of an American who tells 
charmingly of the odd human things that interest everybody. 12mo. Cloth. $1.25 net. 

Our Village 

By JOSEPH C. LINCOLN. A delightful picture of life on Cape Cod thirty years ago. A splendid 
book for gift purposes. Many pen-and-ink sketches, four half-tone illustrations, ornamental cover. 
Printed on toned paper throughout. (To he published April 16.) 12mo. Cloth. $1.50 net. 

Modern Accounting 

By HENRY RAND HATFIELD, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Accounting, University of California, 
A presentation and discussion of the principles of accounting in their important relations. 
T-i o^ r /-..I 12mo. Cloth. $1.75 net. 

Ihe Story of Oil 

By WALTER H. TOWER, A.M., Ph.D., Professor of Finance, Wharton School, UniversUy of 
Pennsylvania. The history and growth of the oil industry from ancient times to the present day. 
Nimierous illustrations. (In press.) 12mo. Cloth. $1.00 net. 



MORS DETAILED INFORMATION ON REQUEST 



■^"tr D. APPLETON Rr CO. ''.^^rj^ 



214 THE DIAL [April!, 



Economic Prizes 



SIXTH YEAR 

In order to arouse an interest in the study of topics relating to commerce and industry, and to 
stimulate those who have a college training to consider the problems of a business career, a committee 
composed of 

Professor J. Laurence Laughlin, University of Chicago, Chairman; 

Professor J. B. Clark, Columbia University; 

Professor Henry C. Adams, University of Michigan; 

Horace White, Esq., New York City, and 

Hon. Carroll D. Wright, Clark College, 

have been enabled, through the generosity of Messrs. Hart, Schaffner & Marx, of Chicago, to ofPer in 
1910 prizes under two general heads. Attention is expressly called to a new rule that a competitor 
is not confined to subjects mentioned in this announcement; but any other subject chosen must first be 
approved by the Committee. 

I. Under the first head are suggested herewith a few subjects intended primarily for 
those who have had an academic training ; but the possession of a degree is not required 
of any contestant, nor is any age limit set. 

1. The effect of labor unions on international trade. 

2. The best means of raising the wages of the unskilled. 

3. A comparison between the theory and the actual practice of Protectionism in the United States. 

4. A scheme for an ideal monetary system for the United States. 

5. The true relation of the central government to trusts. 

6. How much of J. S. Mill's economic system survives ? 

7. A central bank as a factor in a financial crisis. 

Under this head, Class A includes any American without restriction; and Class B includes only 
those who, at the time the papers are sent in, are undergraduates of any American college. Any member 
of Class B may compete for the prizes of Class A. 

A First Prize of Six Hundred Dollars, and 
A Second Prize of Four Hundred Dollars 

are offered for the best studies presented by Class A, and 

A First Prize of Three Hundred Dollars, and 
A Second Prize of Two Hundred Dollars 

are offered for the best studies presented by Class B. The committee reserves to itself the right to 
award the two prizes of $600 and $400 of Class A to undergraduates in Class B, if the merits of the 
papers demand it. 

II. Under the second head are suggested some subjects intended for those who may 
not have had an academic training, and who form Class C : 

1. The most practicable scheme for beginning a reduction of the tariff. 

2. The value of government statistics of wages in the last ten or fifteen years. 

3. Opportimities for expanding our trade with South America. 

4. The organization of the statistical work of the United States. 

5. Publicity and form of trust accounts. 

One Prize of Five Hundred Dollars 

is offered for the best study presented by Class C ; but any member of Class C may compete in Class A. 

The ownership of the copyright of successful studies will vest in the doners, and it is expected that, without 
precluding the use of these papers as theses for higher degrees, they wiU cause them to be issued in some perma- 
nent form. 

Competitors are advised that the studies should be thorough, expressed in good English, and although not limited 
as to length, they should not be needlessly expanded. They should be inscribed with an assumed name, the class in which 
they are presented, and accompanied by a sealed envelope giving the real name and address of the competitor. If the 
competitor is in Class B, the sealed envelope should contain the name of the institution in which he is studying. The 
papers should be sent on or before June 1, 1910, to 

J. Laurence Laughlin, Esq. 

The University of Chicago 
Chicago, Illinois 




1909.] THE DIAL 215 



NEW SPRING PUBLICATIONS 

MOTOR TOURS IN WALES AND THE 
BORDER COUNTIES 

By Mrs. Rodolph Stawell. With upwards of 70 full-page 

illustrations in duogravure. ^3.00. Ready in March. 

A beautiful volume of travel covering the most interesting part of Great Britain and the most 

delightful country in the world. 

THE SPELL OF ITALY By Caroline Atwater Mason, author of 
"A Lily of France." Illustrated from photographs selected by the author. ;^2.50. 
Ready in March. 

This volume includes visits to Naples, Capri, Rome, Padua, Florence, Milan, the Italian Lakes, 
and the baths of Lucca. 

FROM CAIRO TO THE CATARACT By Blanche M. Carson. 

With 48 full-page illustrations in duogravure from photographs taken by the author. 

;^2.50. Ready April i. 

An unusually charming narrative of a journey through Egypt. 

ITALIAN HIGHWAYS AND BYWAYS FROM A 

MOTOR CAR By Francis Miltoun, author of " In the Land of Mosques 
and MinaretSj" etc. Illustrated by Blanche McManus. 1^3. 00. Ready. 

Mr. Miltoun's books of travel have the quality of stimulating the imagination and of arousing the 
reader's ambition to visit the places described. 

FICTION 

DAVID BRAN By Morley Roberts, author of "Rachel Marr," etc. With 
frontispiece in color by Frank T. Merrill. ,^1.50. 

" Among living novelists Morley Roberts holds a high place; but ' David Bran ' will enormously 
strengthen his reputation." — Rochester Post Express. 

A GENTLEMAN OF QUALITY By Frederic Van Rensselaer Dey. 

Illustrated. $1.50. 

A thrilling tale of mistaken identity, the scene of which is laid in England of the present day. 

THE QUEST FOR THE ROSE OF SHARON 

By Burton E. Stevenson, author of " The Marathon Mystery," " The Holladay 

Case," etc. Illustrated. $i>2S' Ready in April. 

A fascinating tale of mystery written in a quaint and charming style. 

THE FURTHER ADVENTURES OF QUINCY ADAMS 

SA iVYER By Charles Felton Pidgin, author of " Quincy Adams Sawyer," 
" Blennerhassett," etc. Illustrated. $1.50. Ready in April. 

A sequel to Mr. Pidgin's first great success, "Quincy Adams Sawyer," which contains all the 
popular appeal of the earlier story. 

THE MYSTERY OF MISS MOTTE By Caroline Atwater Mason, 

author of " The Binding of the Strong," etc. Illustrated. ^1.25. Ready in April. 
Mrs. Mason's story is a delightful combination of mystery and romance, the heroine being a young 
woman of remarkable personality and charm. 

L C. PAGE & COMPANY, NEW ENGLAND BUILDING, BOSTON 



216 



THE DIAL, 



[April 1, 1909 



AN IMPORTANT WORK COMPLETED THIS WEEK 

Ur, L. rl, tS^llCy S exceptionally valuable 

Cyclopedia of American Agriculture 

Edited, with the assistance of over three hundred experts, by L. H. Bailey, 
Director of the College of Agriculture, Cornell University, and Chairman of the 
Commission on Country Life, whose report has recently been forwarded to Congress. 

In four quarto volumes, with 100 full-page plates, and about 2000 other illustrations. 

It tells what to do on any farm, and how to do it 

The work is indispensable to anyone who means to really live in the country. It 
treats logically the central idea of The Farm as a Livelihood, bringing together every 
feature of the making of a living, and the building of national life from the farm. 



CONTENTS 
Volume I. — FARMS 

A general survey of all the agricultural 
regions of the United States, including Porto 
Rico, Hawaii, and the Philippines — Advice 
as to the Projecting of a Farm — The Soil — 
The Atmosphere. 

Volume IL — FARM CROPS 

The Plant and Its Relations — The Manu- 
facture of Crop Products — North American 
Field Crops (individually). 

Volume III. — FARM ANIMALS 

The Animal and Its Relations — The Manu- 
facture of Animal Products — North American 
Farm Animals. 



Volume IV. — SOCIAL 
THE COUNTRY 



ECONOMY IN 



Ju^t ready. Perhaps the most important 
volume of all ; taking the broad view of the 
relation of the farm to the nation. It contains 
discussions on education, farm accounting, 
the costs of production, profitable handling 
and sale of perishable food crops, etc. 



POINTS TO BE NOTED 
The whole work is new. 

Every cut was made, every article written, 
for this work. 

Each article is authoritative. 

All articles are signed ; each is written by the 
man who knows most of the farm industry of 
to-day in relation to that special subject. 

The work is complete. 

It covers every farm process from the choos- 
ing of the land to the accounting of receipts 
and expenses after marketing the crops. 

It is comprehensive and practical. 

The book discusses farming in all localities, — 
from the northwestern wheatfields to the trop- 
ical islands, — tells what crops can be grown 
and marketed and precisely how to do it. 

It is broad in its points of view. 

One article tells how a large farm can be 
organized on an eflBcient scale ; another, how 
the small farm can be run to the best advan- 
tage ; still others, what manufacturing of farm 
products is practical, and how the farm house- 
keeping can be made as perfect as possible^ 



Cyclopedia of American Agriculture 

Any farmer by the use of this work can unquestionably save its cost ten times 
over ; the younger generation will find it tremendously educative. 
In four quarto volumes, fully illustrated, cloth. $20.00 net ; half m^r., $32.00 (carriage extra). 



Published 
by 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 



64-66 Fifth Ave. 
New York 



THE DIAL 

a Semt^i^ontblg Journal of Eiterarg Criticigm, ©iscussum, anb Jnfonnation. 



THE DIAL (founded in 1880) is puhlUhed on the Jut and 16th oj 
each month. Teems of StrBscBipriON, S2. a year in advance, postage 
prepaid in the United Stales, and Mexico; Foreign and Canadian 
postage 50 cents per year extra. Remittances should be by check, or 
by express or postal order, payable to THE DIAL COMPANY. 
Unless otheitcise ordered, subscriptions will begin with the current 
ntimier. When no direct request to discontinue al expiration of sub- 
scription is received, it is assumed that a continuance of the subscription 
is desired. Advertisino Rates furnished on application. All com- 
munications should be addressed to 

THE DIAL, Fine ArU Building, Chicago. 

Entered as Second-Clasa Matter October 8, 1892, at the Post Office 
at Chicago, Illinois, under Act of March 3, 1879. 



No. 54"^. 



APRIL 1, 1909. 



Vol. XLVL 



Contents. 

PAGE 

THE COPYRIGHT ADVANCE 217 

CASUAL COMMENT 219 

The compelling personality of Mr. Chesterton. — 
"A book of Verses underneath the Bough." — A 
sign of decay in the French novel. — The proposed 
national graduate school. — Statistics : Handle with 
care ! — The ending of a novel. — A new world- 
language. — An iconoclastic philosophy. — Hard 
times and the reading habit. — " The Jew of Malta " 
at Williams College. — The dumb animals' advo- 
cate. — The FitzGerald centenary. — " Deformed " 
spelling up to date. 

COMMUNICATION 222 

" Poems of American Histoi-y " — A Note from the 
Compiler. Burton E. Stevenson. 

A MEMORIAL OF LITERARY FRIENDSHIPS. 

Annie Russell Marble 228 

THE NEW GERMANY. W. H. Carrutk .... 224 

AMERICA'S FIRST REPRESENTATIVE BODY. 

Walter L. Fleming 226 

THE CAMBRIDGE HISTORY OF ENGLISH 

LITERATURE. Lane Cooper 227 

FEUDALISM IN CANADA. Clarence Walworth 

Alvord 229 

BRIEFS ON NEW BOOKS 280 

Memoirs of a Prefect of Napoleon. — Life in a New 
England Cranf ord. — Italian days preserved by pen 
and pencil. — Scottish dames of distinction. — Final 
views of a great historian. — Some German letters 
for music-lovers. — The eourae of operatic art since 
Wagner. — The honorable ancestry of Lincoln. — 
Old French prints and their charm. 

BRIEFER MENTION 288 

NOTES 234 

TOPICS IN LEADING PERIODICALS .... 235 

LIST OF NEW BOOKS 286 



THE COPYRIGHT ADVANCE. 



Among the measures rushed through the six- 
tieth CongTess on the last day of its official 
existence was " an Act to amend and consolidate 
the Acts respecting copyright," and on the first 
day of July the code then adopted will go into 
effect as the law of the nation. It has taken 
several years of hard work on the part of the 
American Copyright League and of private 
persons interested in the subject to secure this 
legislation, and the country is to be congrat- 
ulated upon its enactment. It is, of course, a 
compromise measure in many respects, and it 
retains the odious requirement of manufacture 
in the United States. As long as we shall con- 
tinue to submit to the selfish exactions of typog- 
raphers and pressmen, and allow this blot to 
disfigure our copyright law, we must remain 
excluded from the Berne Convention and keep 
our heads lowered whenever the general question 
of fair dealing among nations comes up for dis- 
cussion. Nevertheless, there are gains in sev- 
eral directions, and we are perhaps brought a 
little nearer the day when we may come to be 
counted among the really civilized nations in our 
treatment of literary property. 

First of all, we may be grateful that our 
copyright law is at last intelligently codified. 
Instead of a bewildering collection of separate 
acts, imperfectly related to one another, and 
based upon few common principles, we now have 
a single comprehensive statute, of sixty-four 
sections and approximately nine thousand words, 
which makes it possible for a layman to find out 
for himself with reasonable certainty what the 
law is. " For this relief, much thanks." We 
may hope in time to secure a better law, now 
that this preliminary step has been taken, and 
it is possible even for the reader who runs to 
survey the law which we now have, and thus get 
a clear idea of what is needed for its improve- 
ment. 

It is very satisfying to know that the term of 
copyright is now extended from forty-two to 
fifty-six years, and that the benefit of this ex- 
tension may be shared by copyrights now in 
force. The practical working of this provision 
may be shown by saying that it will protect for 
fourteen years longer a large part of the writ- 
ings of Longfellow, Whittier, Emerson, Holmes, 



218 



THE DIAL 



[April 1, 



Lowell, and Aldrich ; nearly all of the works of 
Bret Harte, Parkman, "Mark Twain," Mr. 
Howells, and Mr. James ; and many such pop- 
ular books as " Little Women," " The Man 
without a Country," " Ben Hur," " Uncle 
Remus," and " Rudder Grange." The books 
just named are a few of the many that would 
have gone out of copyright during the coming 
fourteen years ; the new law will postpone for 
an equal period the date of expiry. The pirate 
who thought to make " Little Women " and 
*' The Man without a Country " his prey next 
year, and " The Story of a Bad Boy " and 
" Innocents Abroad " the year after, will now 
have to curb his unrighteous inclinations until 
1925 or thereabouts. Looked at in another 
light, it is to be observed that the fifty-six year 
term practically insures an American author the 
control of his own writings as long as he lives ; 
this provision falls far short of the Berne recom- 
mendation of lifetime and fifty years thereafter, 
and of the practice of many of the more enlight- 
ened nations, but it marks a substantial step in 
the right direction. 

The vexed question of musical compositions, 
which has been largely responsible for the delay 
in coming to an agreement upon the whole sub- 
ject of copyright, is now settled by a compro- 
mise which embodies a new principle, but which 
should prove reasonably satisfactory to the two 
interested parties, the composer and the manu- 
facturer of instruments for the mechanical repro- 
duction of music. To begin with, the composer 
is free, if he wishes, to prevent any form of 
mechanical reproduction. In case, however, he 
licenses such reproduction at all, or himself 
prepares and offers for sale the mechanical 
devices for such reproduction, no one shall have 
a monopoly of the composition in this form, 
since " any other person may make similar use 
of the copyrighted work upon the payment to 
the copyright proprietor of a royalty of two 
cents on each such part manufactured." The 
law applies, of course, only to compositions here- 
after to be copyrighted ; the manufacturer of 
rolls and discs may continue to make free, as 
heretofore, with all works now in the market. 

Every complicated piece of legislation is likely 
to contain one or more " jokers," and we imagine 
that the new copyright law wiU be found fairly 
well supplied with them. The following words 
seem innocent enough, but will probably be 
found to mean a good deal more than the casual 
reader sees in them : " Nothing in this Act 
shall be deemed to forbid, prevent, or restrict 
the transfer of any copy of a copyrighted work 



the possession of which has been lawfully 
obtained." The system of fixed and uniform 
retail prices for copyrighted books, which our 
publishers and booksellers have been struggling 
to secure, and which prevails generally in 
European countries, will probably be main- 
tained with greatly increased difficulty after 
this provision goes into effect. There may also 
be a " joker " in the requirement of binding 
within the limits of the United States for copy- 
righted books, and we should not be surprised 
if one were discovered somewhere in the para- 
graphs dealing with prohibition of importations. 

The manufacturing requirement of the old 
law providing for intei'national copyright has at 
least been freed from one of its most obnoxious 
features. American manufacture is no longer to 
be a condition of copyright upon books printed 
in foreign languages. Since that stupid require- 
ment was made in 1891, an average of about 
one foreign book a year has been given the fidl 
protection of American copyright, and even the 
selfish greed of the typographical interests could 
find nothing worth urging in its favor. From 
this year on, a Frenchman or a German may 
copyright his books in this country, unless some 
Dogberry shall examine them with a microscope, 
and find a tabooed English word concealed some- 
where in the contents. This suggestion is not 
a fantastic flight of the imagination, for it is the 
incredible truth that books in foreign languages 
are occasionally held for duty in our custom- 
houses because they contain some chance En- 
glish quotation, or book-title, or indexed word ! 
It is needless to say that the new right now 
acquired by foreign authors will do not a little 
to promote international good feeling. Of the 
manufacturing requirement in general we must 
of course say that it is inequitable, and Mr. 
G. H. Putnam neatly points out that it has no 
more foundation in logic than in justice. Other 
countries have a pi'otective policy, and give it 
effect in their tariff laws. Ours is the only one 
to " confuse copyright law with requirements 
that are concerned simply with the interests of 
labor or of capital." 

One more subject calls for a brief analysis. 
For many years a triangular discussion has been 
carried on between our bookbuyers, booksellers, 
and publishers, concerning the importation from 
England of books copyrighted in both countries. 
The publisher naturally wants a monopoly of 
the American market. The bookseller is neutral, 
being as willing to supply his customers with one 
edition as with the other. The bookbuyer, being 
a person of individual tastes, thinks he ought to 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



219 



be free to buy (the author's rights being recog- 
nized in both cases) whichever edition he pleases. 
So far, our sympathies are entirely with the book- 
buyer, since the publisher who fears the com- 
petition of the English edition needs just that 
stimulus to encourage him in making his own 
edition no less attractive. But here comes the 
Copyright Act, telling the buyer that he may 
import a copy (two copies under the old law) for 
use, but forbidding the bookseller to import even 
a single copy for sale. This is rather hard on 
the bookseller, and we feel for him in his pre- 
dicament. But it cannot be considered a very 
serious matter, for the imported copy must pay 
a heavy duty, and ninety-nine purchasers out of 
a himdred will either not go to the trouble and 
expense of getting the English edition, or will 
simply not know how to go about getting it at 
all. Still, we should like to see the bookseller 
free to place his customers' orders for the English 
edition. If this were legalized, we cannot help 
thinking that it would improve the looks of the 
average American edition of an English work, 
besides exercising a wholesome restraint upon 
its published price. 



CASUAL COMMENT. 



The compelling personality of Mk. Ches- 
terton persists in thrusting itself on the attention. 
It is his good fortune, or his misfortune, to be a 
public character ; and whether he is sympathetic or 
unsympathetic to us, he cannot help being an object 
of interest and curiosity. On the whole, there is to 
most observers something irresistibly engaging in his 
generous amplitude of bulk, his outbursts of Homeric 
laughter, his unparalleled absent-mindedness, and, 
withal, the serene independence with which he pur- 
sues his appointed course. From the pen of one 
who has observed him well we take a few words of 
graphic description. " Walking down Fleet street 
some day you may meet a form whose vastness blots 
out the heavens. Great waves of hair surge from 
under the soft, wide-brimmed hat. A cloak that 
might be a legacy from Porthos floats about his 
colossal frame. He pauses in the midst of the 
pavement to read the book in his hand, and a cas- 
cade of laughter descending from the head-notes to 
the middle voice gushes out on the listening air. 
He looks up, adjusts his pince-nesg„ observes that he 
is not in a cab, remembers that he ought to be in 
a cab, turns and hails a cab. The vehicle sinks 
down under the unusual burden, and rolls heavily 
away. It carries Gilbert Keith Chesterton. Mr. 
Chesterton is the most conspicuous figure in the 
landscape of literary London. He is like a visitor 
out of some fairy tale, a legend in the flesh, a sur- 
vival of the childhood of the world. Most of us are 



the creatures of our time, thinking its thoughts, 
wearing its clothes, rejoicing in its chains. . . . He 
is a wayfarer from the ages, stopping at the inn of 
life, warming himself at the fire, and making the 
rafters ring with his jolly laughter." Zest and 
heartiness and the joy of living are qualities too 
admirable not to be cordially welcomed, even though 
their favorite medium of literary expression be the 
now much over-worked paradox. 
• • • 
" A Book of Verses underneath the Bough," 
but probably without any accompanying Jug of 
Wine or Loaf of Bread, and certainly not in the 
midst of any Wilderness, may very soon be enjoyed 
by the patrons of the Los Angeles Public Library, 
in the large new roof garden of the new building ; 
and, if it were not for fear of disturbing other 
readers, doubtless some sweet-voiced " Thou " would 
be provided to sing beside the luxurious lounger — 
to such refinements of lettered ease have they 
attained in that far-away city of the Pacific Coast. 
Let us quote the librarian's description of this gar- 
den of delight, this aerial paradise crowning "the 
magnificent new Hamburger Building at Eighth 
and Broadway, one of the largest and finest modern 
structures in the United States." "The roof gar- 
den," says Mr. Lummis — what went immediately 
before is the phraseology of the Board of Directors — 
" of which this library was the American inventor, 
was thoroughly enjoyed during the two years in the 
Laughlin quarters. In the present location we have 
more than four times the space, viz., some 26,000 
square feet. There is an added advantage of a 
magnificent outlook covering an unbroken horizon 
of mountains, city, and sea. The ' flower pots ' of 
this garden are all in place — redwood receptacles 
large enough to grow a tree a foot in diameter. . . . 
As soon as this out-door reading room can be fitted 
up, it will undoubtedly fulfill and increase the 
former popularity. All kinds of tropical, semi- 
tropical and other trees and plants will be included. 
A large fountain ten feet in diameter is already 
installed. There is also a special section of the 
roof garden fenced off for the noon-day rest of the 
young women of the staff." Felt roofing, or carpet- 
ing one might call it, has been provided — almost 
as pleasant to the feet and as noiseless as turf. If 
one were not unalterably attached to the " effete 
East," what a temptation were here to emigrate to 
Los Angeles ! ... 

A sign of decay in the French novel seems 
discernible in certain recent developments in literary 
Paris. To encourage writers of fiction and to stim- 
ulate their best endeavors — and, possibly, for a less 
disinterested purpose also — a literary periodical of 
that city has founded a prize of three thousand francs 
to be awarded annually to the young author who 
shall have produced the best novel in the preceding 
two years, the verdict to be rendered by a jury of 
Academicians. The degi'ee of youthfulness neces- 
sary to entitle one to compete is not indicated in the 



220 



THE DIAL 



[April 1, 



report that has reached us. M. Paul Bourget, who 
has turned of late from fiction to the drama and has 
produced two plays of merit, writes an interesting 
letter on the novelist's art as compared with the 
dramatist's. " At the time when I was entering 
upon a literary life," he tells us, " we all adopted a 
regular cult for the art of the novel, which was only 
equalled by our disdain for the art of the theatre ; 
and we had no difficulty in showing what differences 
there were between the paintings of a Balzac, a 
Flaubert, a Goncourt, and those of their dramatic 
rivals. Our immediate predecessors, Zola, Daudet, 
Ferdinand Fabre, and Cladel, thought as we did, 
and about 1880 all the youthful French exponents 
of literature seemed to be novelists exclusively. 
The wind has turned since then, and there has been 
an extraordinary growth of dramatic works, which 
shows how foolish was our former disdain of the 
dialogue form. And judging from signs, it seems 
to be the other form — the narrative — against 
which the injustice of the newcomers is now lev- 
eled." The literary weathercocks do not yet indicate 
a similar shifting of the wind with us. 
« • • 

The troposed national graduate school, 
to be established at Washington and to enjoy the 
facilities afforded by all the government libraries 
(twenty-six in number), museums, collections, and 
laboratories, fails to commend itself irresistibly to 
our Congressmen, and the whole matter is pigeon- 
lioled for indefinite future consideration when times 
are less strenuous and other pending issues less 
burning. Nevertheless two public-spirited men have 
undertaken a thorough preliminary investigation of 
the ways and means that must be considered before 
intelligent action can follow. The Commissioner 
of Education and the President of Yale have made 
inquiries and have submitted a report, which is 
published as a Bulletin of the Bureau of Education ; 
and their findings are not in the highest degree 
encouraging. Only the most advanced investigators, 
it appears, are likely to work more profitably in a 
government bureau than in an ordinary graduate 
school. The preliminary theoretical training should 
be completed before the student turns his face 
toward Washington. The government has not at 
present the necessary room or instructors to engage 
in the post-graduate training of young men. Its 
offices and officers are needed for other business. 
This is not a positive barring of the door to per- 
sistent knockers, but it is a cogent dissuasive to all 
but a few ripe students and original investigators who 
know exactly what they want and how to obtain it. 
• • • 

Statistics — Handle with care ! Some such 
cautionary label might well be attached to the sta- 
tistician's columns of harmless-looking figures. It 
is well known that anything and everything can be 
proved by the proper manipulation of these serried 
ranks and ordered files of innocent numerals, and 
that, too, without playing any tricks of misquotation 
or other jugglery; but when, whether with malice 



prepense or without malign intention, there occurs a 
misquoting or misprinting of statistics, neither gods 
nor men can foresee what planet-shaking catastro- 
phes may ensue. The Los Angeles Public Library 
has marked the completion of its second decade of 
cheerful existence and increasing usefulness by the 
issue of an unusually readable yearly account of 
itself ; but in treating the subject of misleading 
registration figures as reported from other cities, it 
has indulged in some pleasant banter at the expense 
of Maiden, Mass., whose "live i-egistration " of 
card-holders it gives as 140,568 — more than four 
times the population of that city as recorded in the 
last national census, and nearly twice the registration 
of its big neighbor, the Boston Public Library. It 
is not surprising that the President of the Maiden 
library board replies to this in a letter for which he 
desires as much publicity as possible — to balance 
the publicity already given in various ways to this 
astonishing ratio. It appears that by some inadvert- 
ence in copying, or by some, confusion of card- 
holders with catalogue-cards, the Los Angeles 
librarian or assistant librarian (or, let us say, the 
office boy) has written the above-named 140,568, 
whereas the proper number, duly given in its right 
place in the Maiden report, is 12,007. Hence these 
smiles. , , , 

The ending of a novel is, to many readers, the 
all-important part of the story. A glance at the last 
page or the last chapter often settles the question, at 
bookstore or library, whether the book shall be taken 
or coldly rejected. An English novelist writes to 
" The Author " a letter of indignant protest against 
alleged unfairness on the part of a literary weekly 
in publishing a synopsis of his new book under the 
guise of a " review," but containing only " a single 
critical adjective " to lend coloring to its pretense 
of being a review. This beti'ayal of the plot the 
injured correspondent is inclined to regai"d as wanton 
disregard of the printed caution, " All rights re- 
served." It is a nice question, in many cases, to 
determine just how much of a story, or of any book, 
should be outlined, or in some rough way repro- 
duced, in order to whet without satiating the reader's 
appetite, and also in order to illustrate or justify the 
critical comments passed upon the work. But since 
so many readers of novels persist in entering them 
by the back-door — in beginning their perusal with 
" Finis " instead of " Chapter I." — it is doubtful 
whether booksales have been materially injured by 
indiscretions of the sort complained of by the nov- 
elist we have quoted. Yet the author should receive 
all the benefit possible to be derived from the curi- 
osity-stimulating elements in his book. 

A NEW world-language swims into our ken, and 
its peculiar merit, or fatal defect, lies in its thorough- 
going artificiality. It calls itself an a priori lan- 
guage, builds itself up scientifically from the very 
bottom, and resolutely refuses to ally itself with or 
base itself upon or take any faintest shade of coloring 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



221 



from any existing language or family of languages. 
Its originator we understand to be Mr. E. P. Foster, 
of Cincinnati, who is also editor-in-chief of the 
monthly "organ " of the new language, " Ro " being 
the short and sufficient title of the paper as well as 
of the tongue it essays to teach. Except that Ro 
makes use of our own alphabet, it is as hard for us 
to learn as for Russians or Arabs or Cingalese. To 
be entirely and impartially a priori, it should have 
its own arbitrary symbols for letters, just as it has 
its own arbitrary and (without previous study) 
entirely unintelligible word-forms and derivative 
endings. The initial letter of each word gives a 
clue to its general meaning, — whether it is a verb 
or a substance or an abstract quality, or what not. 
Inflectional endings are used, and even the vexed 
question of gender has, to some extent, been left to 
trouble the learner. Commendable is the modesty 
of Mr. Foster and his co-workers : they do not declare 
Ro to be the one final and perfect world-language, 
but they do feel convinced that '' the world will soon 
have an international language," although "what 
it will be no man as yet can tell. But Ro hopes to 
gather an editorial staff of scholars from all over the 
world, whose influence shall be a potent factor in 
deciding the question." . , , 

An iconoclastic philosophy, characterized by 
a strenuosity tense enough to suit the most violent 
haters of easy-going convention and of ready-made 
ideals, seems to have put forth its claims in conti- 
nental Europe as a rival of pragmatism. A certain 
Franco-Italian poet named Martinetti is said to be 
the founder and expositor of the new creed, which 
is known as " futurism." The only beautiful thing, 
according to futurism, is fighting. All masterpieces 
are aggressive. Let us look behind us no longer. 
Time and space are no more ; they died yesterday. 
War is the sole hygiene of the world. We will pull 
down all museums and libraries ; we will fight 
moralism, feminism, and all utilitarian cowardice. 
The essential elements of our poetry shall be courage, 
audacity, and rebellion. In this tune the valiant 
Martinetti goes on, picturing a veritable Sicilian 
earthquake of tumbling monuments of the past and 
levelled summits of ancient glory. He appears from 
his words to be about thirty years old and to count 
on ten years of destructive activity before the Oslerian 
age-limit shall consign him, as he expresses it, to the 
waste-paper basket like an old manuscript, when a 
younger man will promptly take his place in the battle 
line. Truly, the bacillus of " tough-mindedness " is 
developing an appalling virulence these beautiful 
spring days. . . . 

Hard times and the reading habit would 
seem to go hand in hand, in pleasant company — 
pleasant intellectually, though often unpleasant for 
tlie pocket and even for the stomach. The book- 
buying habit can hardly be said to be developed and 
confirmed in seasons of great business depression ; 
but enforced leisure does turn many toward the 
public library who would otherwise be standing at a 



loom or behind a counter or at a desk. Mr. Dana' 
of the Newark (N. J.) Public Library, accounts for 
last year's great increase of book-circulation in that 
library and its branches "by (1) the dull times which 
have given to many people more opportunities to 
visit libraries and read, (2) the greater number of 
new books bought by the library in the past two 
years, (3) the extension of the library by branches, 
and (4) persistent and now long-continued advertis- 
ing, for which we are chiefly indebted to the courtesy 
of the local newspapers." Sweet are the uses of 
adversity, and this, the promotion of the reading 
habit and the library habit, is one of them. 
• • • 
" The Jew of Malta " at Williams College 
will be an attractive feature of the coming com- 
mencement season. Its expected presentation will 
add one more to the lengthening list, already printed 
in these columns, of Elizabethan and other early 
English plays acted in recent years by amateur 
companies. Since its production in 1818, in an 
altered version, by the elder Kean at Drury Lane, 
Marlowe's "Jew " has rarely been seen on any stage. 
The fact that the play was written and presented 
only a few years before the appearance of Shake- 
speare's " Merchant of Venice," and that there are 
some rough traits of resemblance between the two 
infamous usurers of the two dramatists, adds a 
special interest to the earlier piece. The present plan 
at Williams is to have the stage-setting modelled 
after that of the old Swan Theatre in London, and 
to have the ushers dressed in Elizabethan costume. 
Mr. George Sargent, of Princeton, 1907, who 
coached the " Doctor Faustus " company of last year, 
has been engaged for similar service this year. 
• • • 

The dumb animals' advocate, the lawyer whose 
practice for the last forty years has been confined to 
cases for the defense of misused horses, dogs, birds, 
and other sufferers from man's inhumanity, will plead 
their cause no more. George T. Angell, founder 
and president of the Massachusetts Society for the 
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, died in Boston, 
March 16, in his eighty-sixth year. Educated for 
the law, and brilliantly successful in his profession, 
he abandoned it for a nobler calling when, in 1868, 
the driving of two horses to death in a race from 
Brighton to Worcester, stirred his indignation and 
prompted him to embrace the cause to which he 
devoted the rest of his life. As founder and editor 
of " Our Dumb Animals," and as instrumental in 
procuring the successful publication of " Black 
Beauty," which had met with flat failure until he 
took it in hand and gave it a circulation of half a 
million copies, Mr. Angell has rendered noteworthy 
service to popular literature as well as to the cause 
of kindness to animals. His place in his chosen 
sphere of usefulness, where he found scope for all 
his native inventiveness and shrewdness and resource- 
fulness, can never be filled, no matter who may be 
chosen as his successor. 



222 



THE DIAL 



[April 1, 



The FitzGerald centenary, the last day of 
March, did not pass without due observance. In 
his own country, unless unexpected hindrances inter- 
vened, his fragrant memory was revived at a banquet 
in the capital of his native county, the town of 
Ipswich (on the 27th), and again on the actual day 
of his birth at a dinner of the Omar Khayydm Club 
in London. No one of the great men of his year, 
so fertile in genius, is it pleasanter to recall than 
the humorously self-depreciating poet-philosopher of 
Woodbridge ; and no one of them all would have so 
incredulously scoffed at and ridiculed the bare sug- 
gestion of these posthumous honors. Indeed, we 
cannot imagine anyone shrinking with more real 
dismay than he from the mere thought of being 
** damned to everlasting fame." 

" Deformed " spelling up to date is conjpactly 
presented in an " Alfabetic List " embracing all the 
simplifications thus far sanctioned by the Board 
whose headquarters are at No. 1 Madison Avenue, 
New York. About 3300 approved spellings are 
given, including " 1100 separate words, simplified 
in the root, and 2200 inflected forms (preterits, 
participles, and participial adjectives ending in -ed, 
or, as simplified, in -d and -t), in which the change 
appears only in the inflection." A sentence com- 
posed to illustrate some of the more radical changes 
wrought by our language-menders might run as 
follows : Welthy soverens ward with malis against 
leagd heroins in dredf ul tho futil endevor to do them 
to deth. 



COMMUNICA TION. 



POEMS OF AMERICAN HISTORY " 
FROM THE COMPILER. 



A NOTE 



(To the Editor of Thb Dial.) 

I have read the review of " Poems of American 
History," signed by Mr. Isaac R. Pennypacker, which 
appeared in The Dial of March 1, with considerable 
interest and amusement — interest because of its impu- 
tation to me of various motives and predilections which 
I was wholly unconscious of possessing, and amusement 
because of the evident animus which underlies it. 

At the time the book was in preparation, Mr. Penny- 
packer saw a notice of it somewhere, and very kindly 
volunteered to assist me in its compilation, sending me 
a number of poems by himself and others, relating to 
Pennsylvania, with the suggestion that they be included. 
Unfortunately, I found myself unable to use any of 
them, although I expressed my obligation to Mr. Penny- 
packer in the introduction to the book. I certainly 
have no prejudice of any kind against Pennsylvania, 
and nearly fifty of the poems in my collection celebrate 
events which took place on Pennsylvania soil; but I 
kuow of no poetry " inspired by her civilization " suit- 
able for the collection. I can conceive of no reason 
why I should have included Whittier's six-hundred-line 
poem on Pastorius, with whom Mr. Pennypacker seems 
to be somewhat obsessed. 



As to beginning the history of the anti-slavery agita- 
tion which resulted in the Civil War, with Pastorius's 
protest written in 1688, I might, no doubt, have found 
a precedent in the example of the illustrious Diedrich 
Knickerbocker; but it seemed to me suiScient to go back 
to the organization of the Anti-Slavery Society in 1833. 
I do not state, as Mr. Pennypacker would have the reader 
infer, that abolition agitation began in 1833; in fact, I 
say very distinctly that " by the begimiing of the nine- 
teenth century it [slavery] had been abolished in " many 
of the states ; but I saw no reason why I should attempt 
to trace this early growth of the movement. 

The inclusion of the " Hymn of the Moravian Nuns of 
Bethlehem," in the chapter of the Revolutionary period 
dealing with " The War in the South," seems greatly to 
distress Mr. Pennypacker, but I can see nothing wrong 
with it, — though this, of course, may be due to a " local 
predilection " of which 1 am unconscious. As Count 
Pulaski played a brilliant, if brief, part in the campaign, 
it seems to me natural enough to begin the accomit of 
it with Longfellow's poem on the consecration of his 
banner. 

With Mr. Pennypacker's charges of historical inaccu- 
racy it is, perhaps, scarcely necessary to deal. Whether 
Keenan really did lead a charge at Chancellorsville, 
whether Thaddeus Stevens was really the moving spirit 
of a coterie, whether Pickett was really in the van of the 
famous charge at Gettysburg, — all these are questions 
which I must leave to the analytical historian. I was not 
writing an original history of America — I was writing 
merely a running comment upon a series of historical 
poems, and I took my history as I found it from the best 
sources at my command. I may, however, remark in 
passing that for the statement concerning Pickett, I have 
the authority of so careful a historian as Mr. James Ford 
Rhodes (History of the United States, Vol. IV., p. 289). 
I note also that Mr. Rhodes calls the Union troops 
"Federals," an expression to which Mr. Pennypacker 
seems to object. I am aware, too, that the exact part 
played by Keenan at Chancellorsville has been the sub- 
ject of a bitter controversy. My version rests upon 
General Pleasonton's account of the affair, which, as it 
agrees with the poem, seemed to me to need no further 
explanation, though I might have noted that its accuracy 
has been questioned. 

Concerning the poetic merit of some of the verses, I 
can only say that estimates of this sort are largely a 
matter of personal equation. But I venture to believe 
that few intelligent people will agree with Mr. Penny- 
packer's dictum that the cleverness of "The Biglow 
Papers" has "evaporated," or that "New England's 
Annoyances " or " Lovewell's Fight " should have been 
left buried. Much of the contemporary verse is negli- 
gible as poetry, but was included for reasons clearly set 
forth in my introduction. 

That some misprints and minor misstatements should 
creep into a work of such magnitude was almost inev- 
itable. These will, of course, be corrected. Mr. Penny- 
packer himself points out two. I am glad to note that 
he considers the conception of the volume excellent, and 
concedes that the task has been carried out with some 
degree of patience and intelligence, and I can only regret 
that these merits seem to be overshadowed in his opinion 
by the " errors of commission and omission " to which 
he takes exception. ^^^^^^^ j, Stevknson. 

Chillicothe, Ohio, March :i6, 1909. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



223 



^t g^to §aahs. 



A Memokial, of LiIteuaky Friendships.* 



Familiar knowledge of the methods, phrase- 
ology, and varied " tricks of the trade " of 
modem journalism has been shown by Mr. Hall 
Caine in the autobiographical chapters which he 
has entitled " My Story." This familiarity has 
been expressed in racy comments on American 
newspapers and their interviewers ; it has also 
impressed the general style of many pages of his 
book. In his Introduction, Mr. Caine tells his 
readers that his original intention was to revise 
and enlarge his " Recollections of Rossetti," pub- 
lished a few years ago, but that the plan expanded 
into its present form of restricted autobiography. 
The scope of the book has been necessarily con- 
fined to Mr. Caine's limited, and incomplete, years 
of productivity, and he has devoted the larger 
portion of his space to records of his friendly 
relations with literary artists and craftsmen. 

The chief interest is found in the nucleus of 
the story — the revelations of Rossetti and his 
small but choice coterie of friends as they were 
known by Mr. Caine during the last few years 
of Rossetti's life. There is a vehement and anti- 
climactic reaction for the reader, as he passes 
from the last impressive scenes in the life of the 
poet-painter to the concluding part of the book, 
wherein Mr. Caine recites many details of his own 
experience as journalist and novelist, his mental 
struggles and monetary successes, and his scat- 
tered notes on such literary acquamtances as 
Blackmore, Wilkie Collins and Robert Buchanan . 

When Mr. Caine's reminiscent study of 
Rossetti first appeared, it was more popular 
with the general reading public than with the 
family and oldest friends of the poet and 
painter. In the recently published " Family 
Letters of Christina Rossetti " there is a direct 
reference to this book, in a letter from Christina 
to her sister-in-law (p. 122): "We have been 
reading Mr. Caine's memoir. Considering the 
circumstances under which his experiences oc- 
curred, I think it may be pronounced neither 
unkind nor unfriendly ; but I hope some day 
to see the same and a wider field traversed by 
some friend of older standing and consequently 
far warmer affection towards his hero ; who, 
whatever he was or was not, was lovable." 
Comparing the earlier version of 1882 with 
the present memorial to his friend, we realize 
that Mr. Caine, in his revision, has improved 



• My Story. By Hall Caine. 
D. Appleton & Co. 



Illustrated. New York: 



the first edition, both in treatment and tone. 
The Rossetti of this later portraiture is indeed 
more human and lovable. The general method, 
however, is too pathological to be entirely 
artistic as biography. The reader's taste is 
occasionally offended by too bald revelation of 
certain details intimes of Rossetti's physical and 
mental sufferings ; there seems to be too much 
loitering over the familiar craving for the fatal 
chloral and its subsequent effects upon the 
mental and moral nature of Rossetti. 

" As a " curtain-raiser," before the dramatic 
chapters of Rossetti's life, Mr. Caine gives a 
few glimpses of his own boyhood on the Isle of 
Man. With vividness he recalls the impres- 
sions upon his youthful memory made by the 
human drama enacted in this sequestered and 
patriarchal parish, with its loves, quarrels, super- 
stitions, ethical lapses, and religious fervor. 
Many of these characteristics have been previ- 
ously described by Mr. Caine in his interesting 
historical sketch, "The Little Manx Nation.". 
When he left this romantic environment to 
become apprentice to a Liverpool architect, he 
came under two strong influences. The first 
was Ruskin and his teachings, and the result 
was certain " flamboyant criticisms " by Mr. 
Caine upon modern architectural ideas and 
his advocacy of fraternal relations in society. 
The second and more important influence was 
Rossetti. Mr. Caine felt a deep interest in the 
personality and poetry of this man of genius, 
and defended him valiantly, in writings and lec- 
tures, against the strictures of Buchanan and 
other critics who reviled Rossetti as a chief 
(exponent of " The Fleshly School of Poetry." 

A printed copy of Mr. Caine's platform trib- 
ute to Rossetti, in 1880, was sent to the poet 
by his young admirer. It brought a gracious 
reply which was the first incident in a friend- 
ship that lasted for two or three years, until 
Rossetti's death. The poet-painter seems to 
have reciprocated the interest of his young friend 
and estimated his abilities with kindness and 
confidence. He urged Mr. Caine to abandon 
his poetical aspirations and to cultivate his 
skill in " fervid and impassioned prose." To 
Rossetti's suggestion that Caine should " try his 
hand at a Manx novel," and his interest in the 
Biblical stories that might be used as fictional 
models, may be traced the incentive which gave 
to the public " The Deemster," " The Bonds- 
man," "The Manxman" — stories of Manx 
customs and human tragedy which represent the 
author's best work in literature. 

With reiterated conviction, Mr. Caine assures 



224 



THE DIAL 



[April 1, 



his readers that Rossetti's melancholia and in- 
somnia, and their aftermath of narcotics, may 
be explained as remorse for two allied causes. 
The first of these causes, he believes, was the 
domestic tragedy of his friend's life — the mar- 
riage, from motives of loyalty, to his beautiful 
model, and the realization later that his heart 
was pledged to another. The second cause for 
remorse — emphasized by Mr. Caine, but possi- 
bly open to question by others — was Rossetti's 
consent to exhume and print his little book of 
verses after they had been buried for seven 
years in the coffin of the wife who had inspired 
them. This exhumation is called " an act of 
desecration — forfeiting the tragic grace and 
wasting the poignant pathos of his first consxmi- 
ing renunciation." Mr. Caine need not assure 
us that this solution of his friend's sadness was 
" written with a thrill of the heart and trem- 
bling hand," for we realize his intensity of feel- 
ing ; and he is sure that " it is the true reading of 
the poet's soul." In spite of his sincerity, how- 
ever, we may not be wholly convinced that he is 
right in all his premises and conclusions. Because 
of his brief acquaintance with Rossetti, — for it 
was brief, although intimate, — it is not certain 
that he f uUy understood his hero's nature, even 
in these later years, and he has seemed to over- 
emphasize certain temperamental traits. 

Perhaps the most graphic and dramatic 
chapter in this book is that called " A Night 
at Cheyne Walk." Here is well portrayed 
Rossetti's hospitality, his incisiveness of speech 
and sensitiveness of feeling, and the spell-bound 
admiration with which Mr. Caine first beheld 
the painting " Dante's Dream," in his friend's 
studio. In certain portions of his reminiscences, 
Mr. Caine has used a Boswellian method. He 
seldom gives letters or conversations in their 
entirety, but introduces excerpts and para- 
phrases, with occasional epigrams and retold 
stories — such as Rossetti's comments on Pre- 
Raphaelitism ; his advice to young authors, 
" Work your metal as much as you like, but 
first take care that it is gold and worth work- 
ing "; or this amusing recollection of Long- 
fellow : " The poet had caUed upon him during 
his visit to England and had been courteous and 
kind in the last degree, but having fallen into 
the error of thinking that Rossetti the painter 
and Rossetti the poet were different men, he had 
said, on leaving the house : ' I have been very 
glad to meet you, Mr. Rossetti, and should like 
to have met your brother also. Pray tell him 
how much I admire his beautiful poem, " The 
Blessed Damozel. ' ' " 



According to the biographer's own confes- 
sions and self-reproaches, Mr. Caine bungled 
deplorably by his tactless remarks and mis- 
taken though well-intentioned efforts to improve 
the condition of Rossetti's health and spirits, 
especially during those lonely and critical weeks 
of companionship when the two men were house- 
mates in the Vale of St. John, as they had 
been for a few previous weeks in Cheyne Walk 
and were later at Birchington. But in spite of its 
blemishes of style, and its incompleteness of 
structure, " My Story " is interesting and illu- 
minating as a series of impressions of Rossetti 
and his friends, Watts-Dunton, Madox Brown, 
Philip Marston, Shields, and others, and as a 
revelation of Mr. Caine's own personality and 
convictions. In newspaper interviews and lec- 
tures Mr. Caine has expressed his liking for 
Americans as he has known them during his 
four visits to our country. In one of the last 
chapters of this book he emphasizes anew his 
admiration for our national traits : 

" I love America and the Americans. I love America 
because it is big, and because its bigness is constantly 
impressing the imagination and stimulating the heart. 
I love its people because they are free with a freedom 
which the rest of the world takes as by stealth, and they 
claim openly as their right. I love them because they 
are the most industrious, earnest, active, and ingenious 
people on the earth; because they are the most moral, 
religious and above all, the most sober people in the 
world; because, in spite of all shallow judgments of 
superficial observers, they are the most childlike in their 
national character, the easiest to move to laughter, the 
readiest to be touched to tears, the most absolutely 
true in their impulses, and the most generous in their 
applause. I love the men of America because their 
bearing towards the women is the finest chivalry I have 
yet seen anywhere, and I love the women because tliey 
can preserve an unquestioned piu'ity with a frank and 
natural manner, and a tine uidependence of sex." 

Annie Russell Marble. 



The New Germany.* 



Since Bayard Taylor's "Views Afoot," it has 
been common for Americans to depend on 
letters of casual travellers and on illustrated 
" travelogue " lectures for their impressions of 
Germany. The majority of summer wanderers 
do not go far beyond the Rhine boundary, 
regarding the interior as a dulsome district 
inhabited by a poky people with a difficult lan- 
guage and nothing worth looking at in compar- 
ison with London and Brussels and Paris and 
Switzerland. But since the label "Made in 
Germany" has come to have a market value, 

* The Evolution op Modern Germany. By William 
Harbutt Dawson. New York: Charles Scribner's Sons. 



1909.] 



THE DIAl^ 



225 



Germany has acquired a new interest to us 
Anglo-Saxons. A year ago last fall a large 
delegation of English mechanics visited some 
of the principal North German manufacturing- 
cities, and spent some weeks examining into 
such secrets of trade as were not guarded 
against prying competitors. The growing good 
feeling between the rank and file of the two 
countries made the visit pleasant and probably 
profitable to the visitors. 

It is not in evidence that Mr. Dawson, 
author of the latest sociological report on Ger- 
many, was among the visitors, but he may have 
gathered much of his material from that inspec- 
tion. His book on " The Evolution of Modern 
Germany" is written "to tell British readers what 
they ought to know, and must know, if they 
would understand how it is that Germany has 
gone ahead so rapidly during recent years, not, 
however, by way of discouraging but of reassur- 
ing them. For there is really little mystery 
about Germany's industrial progress ; it has been 
achieved by means and methods which are open 
to all the world if only people will employ them. 
Science, education, application, and an equal 
regard for small as for large things, — these in 
the main are the causes of Germany's success." 

But Mr. Dawson deals, in his twenty-three 
chapters and five hundred pages, quite as 
much with political as with economic questions. 
There is a certain British bulkiness in his ma- 
terial ; yet for reference if not for continuous 
reading, for instruction if not for entertainment, 
the bidkiness may be condoned. A slight addi- 
tion to the bulk — to wit, in the title — would 
have precluded unwarranted expectations of pic- 
tures of literary and artistic Germany ; for it is 
extraordinary how conscientiously all but indus- 
trial and political phases of life are avoided. 
The general reader will doubtless find among 
the most interesting chapters those on " The Per- 
sonal Equation," " Capital and Labour," " The 
Workman," " Cooperation," " The Population 
Question," and " The Outlook of Socialism." 

Commercial Germany has gained enormously 
by her dependence upon science, by her exact- 
ness of method, and by her consideration for 
the customer's wishes. " It is a common com- 
plaint that there are English dyers who will not 
bring theory (in other words, science) to bear 
upon their practice, but persist in the old guess- 
work which was good enough for their fathers." 
In the chemical industries there is a university- 
trained chemist to every forty workpeople, a 
ratio of science to labor probably excelled in no 
other country in the world. " The German 



manufacturer has put away from him the anti- 
quated idea that the consumer exists for his 
benefit, and instead he acts on the principle 
that the buyer has a right to have what he 
wants, if it can be made. It is impossible to 
say how much trade has left England, never, 
perhaps, to return, owing to obstinate refusal 
to recognize this not unreasonable principle." 

And the merchant is equally alive to his 
patron's convenience and his own interests. "He 
does not expect foreigners to be expert in the 
German language, but addresses them in their 
own tongues — often, no doubt, with peculiar 
variations of his own, — and if letters will not 
answer the purpose the merchant goes himself 
or sends some one who is well able to do his 
business for him." An interesting instance is 
cited of the Commercial Association of the city 
of Stettin, which for thirty years has prepared 
and sent abroad to America and the British 
colonies a certain number of young men with a 
stipend of $375 annually, whose business was 
to make commercial reports to the Association 
and in general to " tout " the commerce of 
Stettin. " The whole theory of trading as 
understood in Germany is that if business is 
worth having it is worth seeking." Perhaps 
the United States does not need instruction in 
this principle, and our consular agents are sup- 
posed to do for us what the young men of 
Stettin are pledged to do for their city. 

Personally, as Mr. Dawson observes, the 
German workman " walks well, works well, 
and looks well," which cannot be said with so 
little reservation of his English fellow. The 
German's superiority in this respect is attribiited 
in part to his military training, to the Govern- 
ment's care for him, and to his frugal habits, 
his Genilffsamkeit, as manifested in the satis- 
faction that he takes in simply sitting in the 
parks and visiting. 

" There is a certain uegativeness about this form of 
eujoyment which a man of active temperament might 
not readily appreciate, for a German workman can 
patiently sit for hours together upon a bench or a patch 
of sward silently smoking his cigar and gazing into 
space. It would be unfair to say that such a condition 
of mental inertia is necessarily unintelligent; rather, it 
goes with the essential simplicity and naivete of the 
German nature, which is still on the whole frugal in its 
hedonism as in other things, requires no violent relaxa- 
tions, can make a little pleasure go a loug way, and can 
derive satisfaction from ti'ifles. The Germans have 
coined a word to describe this mood of passive content : 
it is the imtranslatable word, Behagen " (p. 154). 

Among the improved conditions of the work- 
men, Mr. Dawson notes the growth of partial 
or total abstinence from alcoholic drinks. The 



226 



THE DIAL, 



[AprQ 1, 



growth of Germany in this direction has been 
ahnost as startling as that of the United States, 
though the two countries are still far apart in 
their attitude toward " the drink." Twenty 
years ago it was difficult to obtain drinking 
water on railways and at hotels in Germany ; 
to-day it is universally provided, and its use 
does not occasion comment. Germany has her 
Good Templar Lodges, her " Society for the 
Suppression of the Traffic in Alcoholic Drinks." 
" Trade union conferences exclude alcohol from 
their meeting-rooms," and Mr. Dawson finds 
that the Socialists seek to wean the working- 
classes from alcohol on the theory that Capital 
deliberately uses the drink as a means to de- 
grade them. " When large public works are 
constructed, the authorities require the contrac- 
tors to keep alcohol in the background in all 
their canteens and to give prominence to non- 
alcoholic drinks. . . . The conviction has taken 
hold of a large section of the workers that their 
industrial efficiency and their value as members 
of society will be increased by the practice of 
temperance." It may be added that since the 
preparation of Mr. Dawson's book another step 
in this direction has been taken in the prohibition 
of the sale of alcohol to soldiers in transit. 

The chapter devoted to Cooperation is inter- 
esting but too brief. It is remarkable how the 
intensely individualistic Germans have learned, 
partly under state tutelage, to combine for the 
common good. One German in every fifteen 
belongs to a cooperative society of one sort or 
other. In two squares the reviewer counted 
last year the offices of nineteen unions or com- 
binations of some sort. 

The Population problem is being studied 
intelligently in Germany. There is no foolish 
and unreasoning demand for larger families, but 
prudent study to care better for the children that 
are born. The Motherhood Protection League 
has for its object " to improve the position of 
women as mothers in legal, economic, and social 
matters," and in general to check infant mor- 
tality. Yet it may be said in general that 
" England spares its women, where Germany 
spares its children." Each country has ample 
room for improvement in the other direction. 

A score of other subjects are handled with 
more or less completeness. " The Outlook of 
Socialism" is not treated with entire clearness, per- 
haps for the reason that the outlook is indeed hazy. 
Mr. Dawson is discreet in avoiding prophecy. 
But his book is a valuable granary of fact for 
every student who would understand political 
and economic Germany. W. H. Carruth. 



America's First Representative Body.* 



In Virginia, in 1619, a House of Burgesses 
"broke out" — to use the language of an angry 
official of the time. This was the first repre- 
sentative body on American soil, and for more 
than a century and a half it was the most import- 
ant assembly in the colonies — as Virginia was, 
before the Revolution, the leading English 
colony. Throughout its existence the House 
of Burgesses demanded and obtained for the 
Virginians all the rights of Englishmen, and 
some other rights in addition. The history of 
the political and constitutional development in 
Virginia is to a great extent the history of the 
development of the representative assembly, its 
disputes with the governor and others, and its 
growing influence over all other political institu- 
tions of the colony. 

History has shown in large degree how import- 
ant this body was, but the records which afford 
the opportunity for a final estimate have not 
hitherto been generally accessible. Now, how- 
ever, we are promised the publication of mate- 
rial that will throw light over the long existence 
of the House of Burgesses. The Library Board 
of the Virginia State Library has authorized 
the State Librarian to publish all that can be 
obtained of the Journals of the House of Bur- 
gesses back to 1619. At present many gaps 
exist, but some of these will be filled before the 
enterprise is completed. The plan was formu- 
lated and four volumes were carefully edited by 
State Librarian John Pendleton Kennedy ; the 
editorship is now continued by his successor 
Dr. H. R. McUvaine, who seems likely to keep 
the work up to" the high standard set by Mr. 
Kennedy. 

The publication is in the reverse of chrono- 
logical order. The six volumes already printed 
reach from 1776, when the House of Burgesses 
passed out of existence, back to 1752. Each 
volume contains, in addition to the Journal of 
the House of Burgesses, an Introduction by the 
editor, the proclamations of the governor, lists 
of the members of the assembly', and a good 
index. The fifth volume contains also the 
minutes of the Committees of Correspondence. 
The bibliographical notes in the Introduction 
explain how scarce and scattered the printed 
and manuscript journals are. Some were found 
in America in the collections of the Virginia 
State Library, some in the Library of Congress, 

♦Journals of the House op Burgesses of Virginia — 1758- 
1776. Four volumes edited by John Pendleton Kennedy; one 
volume edited by H. R. Mcllvaine. Richmond : The Colonial 
Press. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



227 



in the Massachusetts Historical Society, in the 
Philadelphia Library Company, and some were 
in private possession ; others were found in the 
British Public Record Office and in the British 
Museum. Each volume has as a frontispiece 
a facsimile of some interesting page of an old 
journal. 

One feature of the work deserves, in the 
opinion of the present reviewer, severe criti- 
cism : that is, the use of antique type with the 
long yi and similar pecidiarities, not only in the 
documentary part of the work but also in the 
editorial notes and introductions. The Jour- 
nals are reprinted for use, and such printing 
makes use more difficult ; it also causes more 
slips in proof-reading. Nor are any of the fre- 
quent abbreviations written out in fidl. All 
this exact reprinting serves no good purpose, but 
is troublesome to the eye. It is not necessary to 
reproduce historical documents with such stere- 
otyped exactness. The little sheet of suggestions 
in regard to such matters, sent out some years 
ago by a committee of the American Historical 
Association, should have furnished a guide to 
the editor. The printing and binding are good — 
the best ever done in the South, it is safe to say ; 
and for this, credit is due to the Colonial Press 
of Richmond. 

The introductory sketches written by the 
editor furnish the historical background to the 
text of the Journals. Mr. Kennedy, in his 
introductions, amounting in all to nearly 200 
pages, reprints many documents boimd together 
by a slight thread of editorial narrative. These 
documents, incomplete as the selection is bound 
to be, serve to throw light on the text, and wiU 
be of service to students who cannot easily get 
access to the originals. For the most part, these 
documents are taken from Hening's Statutes, 
the Virginia Gazette, the Draper MSS. in the 
Library of the Wisconsin Historical Society, 
the Bancroft Transcripts, and other materials in 
the Library of Congress. Mr. Kennedy's narra- 
tive is sometimes carelessly put together. In the 
fifth and sixth volumes. Dr. Mcllvaine changes 
slightly the editorial plan. The introductory 
sketch is much shorter, and is confined strictly 
to an account of the House of Burgesses during 
the period covered by the volume ; illustrative 
documents are relegated to an appendix ; lists of 
members are printed once for each House, not 
once for each session ; and duplication of foot- 
note references is reduced to a minimum. 

The journals themselves are reproduced ex- 
actly. The contents of such documents are so 
varied that comment is made difficult. But 



read in the light of history, the dry entries of 
the eventful twenty years before the Revolution 
become intensely interesting. Now for the first 
time can be satisfactorily traced the history of 
the leading American colony from the beginning 
of the French and Indian War to the outbreak 
of the Revolution. These volumes are especially 
valuable for the information made available 
relating to the closing years of the last inter- 
colonial war ; the growth of the West, and the 
Indian troubles that resulted ; and the develop- 
ment of the spirit of independence which led to 
the Revolution. When completed, the series 
will form the most valuable historical work 
undertaken by any Southern State. 

Walter L. Fleming. 



The Cambbii>gb History of English 

IjITERATURE.* 



Partly as a residt of influences emanating 
from Germany, the home of the grundriss, and 
France, the home of the encyclopedie, an era 
of organized effort in modern scholarship seems 
to have set in throughout Great Britain. Such 
a tendency is well worth fostering, if it be 
fostered in the proper way. Not least among 
the benefits conferred by a history of English 
literature whose fourteen volumes are to embrace 
an account of both main and lesser literary move- 
ments, and of secondary writers as well as those 
of first importance, from the beginnings down 
to the present day, and to whose making com- 
petent scholars in their several departments, 
scholars not only in England but the most eminent 
wherever they may be enlisted, are supposed to 
contribute, — not least among the benefits con- 
ferred by a work of such an origin and scope must 
be the strengthening of a sense of solidarity 
among professed students of English throughout 
England and the English-speaking world. 

Aside from this unquestionable advantage, 
the precise function of " The Cambridge History 
of English Literature " will to some of us remain 
obscure. In relation to its subject, the work 
is not an encyclopedie or a grundriss in the 
French or German sense, although while plan- 
ning it the editors have had comprehensive 
French and German works in mind ; and it is 
not a history conceived in harmony with any 
model of long standing. It represents an effort 
to furnish a general survey of an entire field of 

*The Cambridge History of English Literature. Edited 
by A. W.Ward and A. R. Waller. Volume I., from the Begin- 
nings to the Cycles of Romance. Volume II., The End of the 
Middle Ages. New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons. 



228 



THE DIAL 



[April 1, 



scholarship, to sum up the more or less tentative 
results of all investigations in the several parts 
of the field, and at the same time to perform 
the office of a completed work of art, such as any 
true history of literature aims to be. Unfor- 
tunately, for the present at least, and perhaps 
for centuries to come, an attempt to identify the 
offices of the scientist and the artist in dealing 
with the course of English literature as a whole 
and in detail must involve a confused perform- 
ance of either function. It would be possible, 
under the right kind of leadership, for a frater- 
nity of scholars to organize a purely scientific 
and structural work — in this sense artistic — 
which should do for English studies in particular 
what Paul's Grundriss has done for Germanic 
philology in general ; that is, it would be pos- 
sible, as it would be altogether desirable, to 
produce an encyclopaedia and methodology 
which should bring together the assured results 
of past investigation in the domain of English 
language and literature, and draw sharp lines 
between what is clearly known, what is probable, 
what is less probable, and what is certainly 
unknown. Such a work would have a definite 
function, as either Paul's or Grbber's Grundriss 
has a definite function ; with an eye to a final 
synthesis, its immediate purpose nevertheless 
would be analytical, and for the mind first of 
all ; it would be in the nature of a new organon 
for the study of the English language and 
literature, taking the place of books like those 
of Elze and Kbrting, which were well enough 
for their time, but should now give way to a 
large cooperative undertaking. Although it 
would not seek to anticipate the one far-ofE 
divine event toward which the world of English 
scholarship doubtless moves, although it would 
not be an inclusive history of English literature, 
it would be a decisive step nearer to that wished- 
for consummation. On the other hand, a gifted 
scholar like Ten Brink, a man of varied powers 
and mature training, one who had himself made 
notable additions to our knowledge in diverse 
parts of the subject, and was possessed of the 
tact and perspective of genius, might again com- 
pose a relatively brief account of the main 
currents and personalities in our literature, and 
oifer us perhaps the most stimulating book, 
short of some congenial poet, that could be put 
into the hands of a beginner in English scholar- 
ship. 

The truth is, the editors of " The Cambridge 
History " seem to have gone upon the assump- 
tion that the history of English literature can 
be recorded as the history of the French lan- 



guage and literature has been in the monumental 
work of Petit de Jidleville ; or, let us say, as the 
history of Greek literature has been by those 
masters of their art and science, the brothers 
Croiset. But the conditions are very different. 
For a history of French literature, and still 
more for a liistory of the literature of ancient 
Greece, the preliminary work has been accom- 
plished. One may say that preparations for the 
achievement of Alfred and Maurice Croiset 
began with the critics of Alexandria. For a 
definitive history of English literature the fun- 
damental labors have hardly begun. Texts must 
be edited, concordances and indexes made, final 
biographies written, — all the care that has 
been lavished on the masterpieces of Greece and 
Rome must \)e lavished on the masterpieces of 
English ; and the chaff must be blown away. 
He that will have a cake out of this wheat must 
tarry the grinding, the bolting, and the leaven- 
ing, and after that the kneading, the making of 
the cake, the heating of the oven, and the bak- 
ing ; even then he must stay the cooling too, or 
he may chance to burn his lips. Of how many 
periods or writers in English literature may it 
be affirmed that the intensive study of them has 
gone beyond the grinding and the bolting? 
Although a larger share of systematic study has 
been accorded to the period of Old English than 
to any other, still, up to the year 1900, when 
Professor Cook brought out his edition of 
Cynewulf's " Christ," not a single Old English 
text had received the measure of scholarly 
attention which the veriest fragments of Greek 
have been winning since the Italian renaissance. 
Of how many authors in English must we con- 
fess that in their case not even the grinding has 
begun ? On the other hand, for what material 
in the literature of ancient Greece was not the 
oven fairly hot before the middle of the last 
century ? 

To the present writer, then, the editors of 
" The Cambridge History " seem to have paid 
insufficient heed to the Aristotelian query, which 
the author of any work of science or of art 
ought to propound to himself at the outset, 
namely: What is the precise and single main 
effect which we wish, and can hope, to bring 
about by the use of such and such means, which 
are at our disposal, in the mind of such and such 
a person ? Instead, they seem to have said to 
themselves : Whereas there are adequate his- 
tories of certain other literatures, but none of 
English, let us forthwith proceed to organize 
one which in some respects shall be like a 
German grundriss, but in others like a finished 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



229 



artistic narrative. The result, however valuable 
in parts, can have neither scientific nor artistic 
unity if considered as a whole. 
QlWhen the whole is published, in all likelihood 
we shall find that " The Cambridge History " 
will mainly serve as a work of reference ; that 
the bibliographies and other critical apparatus 
will be of greater value than most of the sepa- 
rate chapters ; that in particvdar the account of 
Middle English literature, of which our knowl- 
edge is in a singularly chaotic state as com- 
pared with our knowledge of any other province 
in the literary history of the Germanic peoples, 
will have to be much revised ; that certain chap- 
ters, like those of Professor Ker on the Metrical 
Romances, 1200-1500 (vol. 1, chap. 13), Mr. 
Bradley's on Changes in the Language to the 
.Days of Chaucer (vol. 1, chap. 19), Maitland's 
on the Anglo-French Law Language (vol. 1, 
chap. 20), the chapters by Professor Gregory 
Smith and Mr. Macaulay in the second volume, 
and several which are announced for succeeding 
volumes, among them Professor Cook's on the 
Position and Influence of the Authorized Ver- 
sion, will stand out as possessed of a more lasting 
excellence ; that the unevenness which charac- 
terizes the first two volumes both in style and 
matter will not tend to decrease in later ones ; 
that conscientious teachers will be forced to 
warn the guileless student against sundry chap- 
ters which have been written with such skill 
that, while disavowing finality in the discussion 
of open questions, they nevertheless lead one to 
believe that the discussion is closed ; that, in 
fine, we shall all need a guide to this guide-book, 
and a guard to protect us against our guardians 
— sometimes our guardians against one another. 

Lane Cooper. 



Feudalism in Canada.* 



The third volume of the Publications of the 
Champlain Society maintains the high standard 
of excellence established by the preceding ones. 
As these successive volumes appear, the regret 
on the part of the book-buying public will 
increase that the Champlain Society does not 
reserve a few of each issue for the public mar- 
ket, so that separate volumes may be purchased 
without the necessity of subscribing to the 
entire series. In the case of publications so 
unique as the present work, it should be quite 

• Documents Relating to the Seigniorial" Tenure in 
Canada, 1598-1854. Edited, with an Historical Introduction 
and Explanatory Notes, by William Bennett Munro. Toronto : 
The Champlain Society. 



possible to dispose of a few hundred copies to 
students who find the annual dues of the society 
almost prohibitive. 

The conception of the present volume arose 
from the fitness of the editor to produce such 
a work, rather than from the reverse process, 
more usual in societies, of deciding to publish 
a volume and then selecting an editor. The 
result is that this collection of documents is the 
product of a mind well trained for the work, 
and not the customary assemblage of illustrative 
material of slight coherence, bound within the 
covers of a book. 

In the well conceived and well written In- 
troduction, and in the selection of documents, 
Professor Munro has presented to the public a 
unified picture of Canadian Feudalism in all 
its essential aspects, from its inception to its 
abolition in 1854. The editor has already pub- 
lished the results of his researches in this field 
in his monograph on " The Seigniorial System 
in Canada," in the Harvard Historical Studies. 
We should not expect, therefore, and do not 
find, much that is new in the Introduction ; in 
fact, the aim has been to illuminate the printed 
documents rather than to make a study of the 
problems presented by Canadian Feudalism. 
Hence there is sufficient justification for the 
moderate use of footnotes and the avoidance 
of monographic style in the volume. 

Professor Munro may be counted among the 
adherents of the " new school " of American 
historians, if the movement among the leaders 
of our younger historians may be dignified by 
such a name. The scholars of this movement 
are not distinguished from their predecessors so 
much by a difference in method, carefulness of 
procedure, or the discovery of new facts in 
American history, as by their point of view 
and the facts which they select for emphasis. 
In the present case, the comparison between 
Parkman's interpretation of Feudalism and that 
of Professor Munro is inevitable. Although 
Parkman's " Old Regime in Canada " appeared 
in 1874, it has held its place among scholars, 
and on our college reference-shelves, as the 
final word, for English readers, on Canadian 
Feudalism, imtil the present time. So much 
is this the case that it is a common saying among 
Canadian historians that no important work on 
their history has been done since Parkman. 

There can be no question of Parkman's 
industry in collecting the material for his studies ; 
for anyone who has followed him closely realizes 
that very little escaped him, and that the facts 
of the subject were well known to him. Nor 



230 



THE DIAL 



[April 1, 



can there be a question of his honesty. After 
collecting his material he has tried to give a 
judicious interpretation ; and it is here that he 
has failed to satisfy modern scientific require- 
ments. At the basis of his interpretation lie 
those New England experiences which had be- 
come so much a part of his consciousness that 
they were never dispelled by his travels. His 
judgment is provincial, not cosmopolitan. To 
him, French Canada spells absolutism, ecclesias- 
ticism, and feudalism ; and out of these have 
developed the institutional history of the north- 
ern province. 

Professor Munro, on the contrary, sets him- 
self the task of discovering the causes of the 
peculiar institutions of Canada, and what were 
the elements of strength which made them fitted 
to survive in the primeval forest. He does not 
find in the conquest of the French colonies by 
England a reason for condemning their institu- 
tional system ; but rather is he interested in the 
" remarkable defensive vigour of New France," 
the reason of which was this : " New France 
derived advantage from the homogeneity of her 
population, her unity of interest and purpose, 
and her policy of diverting all political, social, 
and economic development into those channels 
which were considered most conducive to mili- 
tary efficiency." This was the more necessary 
on account of the large extent of territory which 
she was attempting to control, wherein the con- 
ditions were not " unlike those existent in 
Western Europe during the ninth and tenth " 
centuries. " A comparatively small body of 
French colonists, surrounded on all sides by 
active enemies both white and red, unable at 
any time to rely upon aid from without, and 
dependent for their very existence upon their own 
military efficiency, might well have found in a 
system of feudal organization an institution well 
adapted to colonial conditions." (Introduction, 
pp. XVIII. and xix.) Starting with this new 
view-point, Professor Munro has been able to 
make a new interpretation of Canadian Feu- 
dalism. 

When the selection of documents to be pub- 
lished has been so carefully made as in this 
volume, the reviewer should be cautious in crit- 
icizing. The mass of materials passed under 
review has been enormous, and the final choice 
of those to be printed was reached only after a 
due consideration of the needs of various classes 
of students. The omission of certain documents 
is therefore easily defended. Still, it is sur- 
prising that the editor has not chosen to include 
some of the decisions in lawsuits handed down 



by the Intendants or the Superior Council. In 
these, the existing system is better displayed 
than in charters, edicts, dispatches, or instruc- 
tions, such as have been selected. This is pecu- 
liarly the case in the economic relations of the 
seigneurs to their habitants, a phase of the sys- 
tem that has been somewhat neglected by the 
editor in this volume. The institutions of 
Canada were not always what the French gov- 
ernment desired, nor what the magistrates of 
New France chose to describe. For the actual 
workings of Canadian Feudalism, therefore, it 
will be necessary to supplement the study of this 
volume with careful research in documents of a 
different kind, which are easily available in 
printed form, a fact which may justify their 
omission here. 

Professor Munro has not attempted to trans- 
late the French documents, since " a perfect 
translation would tax the knowledge of a trained 
jurist as well as the literary skill of a historical 
scholar." It seems to the reviewer that this was 
a sufficient reason for making a translation 
rather than an excuse for its omission. The 
special knowledge of the editor would have then 
been available for the interpretation of these 
extremely technical but valuable documents, 
and would have justified the extension of the 
work to two volumes if necessary. 

These criticisms are, after all, due to a differ- 
ence of opinion, and in no way touch the schol- 
arly method of the editor. The volume is an 
excellent example of American scholarship, 
bound and printed in a dignified style ; and the 
Champlain Society is to be congratulated on the 
success of its undertaking. Should succeeding 
volumes reach the level of scholarship of the 
first three, the society's publications will form 
one of the most important collections of source 
material issued in America. 

Clarence Walworth Alvord. 



Briefs ox New Books. 

-, , With the exception of the history of 

Memoirs of , . , . , . , , '' 

a Prefect of legislation, nothing more clearly em- 

Napoieon. phasizes the continuity of the life of 

France across the confines of successive regimes 
than the experience of men like the Comte de 
Rambuteau, as revealed in his recently published 
Memoirs (Putnam). He served the Emperor 
Napoleon both as chamberlain and as prefect; he 
remained a prefect during the First Restoration, 
and when Napoleon came back for the Hundred 
Days he still remained a prefect. After a long 
interval he again became prefect, this time of Paris, 



1909.] 



THE DIAJL 



231 



retiring to private life once more with the fall of 
Louis Philippe. In holding office under three 
rigimes within a year, Rambuteau felt he was 
serving France, rather than exhibiting any unusual 
facility in changing masters. It was well that in the 
disastrous years of imperial collapse and abortive 
restoration there were men of trained administrar 
tive capacity who could see that the great organs 
of public life performed their ordinary functions 
until the crisis was over and the controversy be- 
tween Napoleon and his enemies determined finally. 
Although Rambuteau was of the ancient nobil- 
ity, and not of the imperial mintage, he remained 
at heart a Bonapartist. In 1830 he would have 
contributed to the enthronement of the Duke of 
Reichstadt had there been any chance of success. 
These Memoirs were written, or rather dictated, in 
his old age. At this time his memory, said by his 
grandson to have been remarkable, was not free 
from liability to lapses. So many scenes pass be- 
fore his mind that few of them are described with 
that distinctness of outline and variety of color 
which make the charm of some French Memoirs. 
One is puzzled to know what reliance can be placed 
upon the details of conversations repeated after an 
interval of more than thirty years. It may be that, 
according to the classical example of Thucydides, 
where he could not recall the words or the drift of 
the talk he repeats what the personages ought to 
have said under the circumstances. This precaution 
need not apply to the repetition of the witty sayings 
of the men of the old rSgime who graced Napoleon's 
court. The best of these is the reply of the 
Comte de Narbonne to Napoleon, when, speaking 
of Narbonne's mother, the Emperor said : " She has 
got no great liking for me, eh? " "No, sire," was 
the response, "so far, she has got no further than 
admiration." In the later pages of the Memoirs 
is a detailed analysis of the improvements which 
Rambuteau introduced in Paris as prefect. To stu- 
dents of Parisian history this will be particularly 
interesting. 

Life in a ^"® ^^^^ "*** "®^^ ^ ^® familiar with 

New Enyiand Mrs. Gaskell's masterpiece in order 
cranford. ^ g„jj,y u My Cranford " (Houghton), 

a little book calling itself, in its sub-title, " A Phase 
of the Quiet Life," from the pen of Mr. Arthur 
Oilman. A town near Boston, literary in its tastes, 
independent in its ways, of glorious Revolutionary 
renown, and the mother of many famous sons, — 
such is My Cranford ; and the illustrations from 
photographs, together with the scattered historical 
references, make it not very difficult to conjecture 
what rural community the author had in mind, or 
chiefly in mind (for My Cranford seems somewhat 
composite here and there), when he wrote his book. 
Proper names, of course, are carefully changed, and 
a tantalizing vagueness enshrouds the ostensibly clear 
and minute details. But each reader will like to do 
his own guessing; therefore any surmise on the 
reviewer's part would be out of place and unfair. 



An especially alluring chapter to those of bookish 
or antiquarian tastes is entitled " The Public Library," 
and begins in this pleasant strain : " As I pass along 
early this summer evening I notice that the windows 
of the Public Library are aglow, and I drop in to 
inquire of the fair one who presides over it on week- 
days about the time-stained volumes on the lower 
shelves that tell me of the days when Cranford was 
a-g^'owing, and about the habits of the fathers and 
mothers of a hundred or two years ago." There is 
no thread of romance whereon the chapters are 
strung, as there is in the English " Cranford," but 
the descriptions and reflections and reminiscences 
are able to stand on their own merits. 



,, ,. , More sentiment lingers about the 

Italian days, p x i i <• 

preserved by name of Italy than ot any other 
pen and pencil, country. Doubtless that is why so 
many persons write books about Italy, and why so 
many others are ready to read them ; and this is 
doubtless why " Home Life in Italy " (Macmillan) 
has been written by " Lina Duff Gordon." For some 
months she and her family dwelt in an old fortezza 
in an isolated valley of the Carrara mountains, while 
her husband (Aubrey Waterfield) made paintings 
or drawings of the scenery and the people. They 
came in somewhat closer touch with the Italian peas- 
ants and artisans than strangers commonly do, and 
they entered into the village life with sympathetic 
appreciation. The book is a pleasing record, by 
means of pen and picture, of their individual experi- 
ences. Lovers of Italy will enjoy sharing these, 
but the title " Home Life " is somewhat delusive and 
altogether too large for the occasion. There are 
indeed some chapters of generalities relating to such 
subjects as courtship, marriage superstitions, country 
fairs, etc., but most of this is already familiar knowl- 
edge. The chief merit of the book is its somewhat 
piquant way of describing the daily household inci- 
dents, those that involve the doings and sayings of 
children and servants, the marketing, the hours in 
the garden, etc., such minor but interesting things 
as we welcome in the well-written letters of a per- 
sonal friend. Besides thirteen illustrations made 
from Mr. Waterfield's pictures, there are fifteen 
more from photographs taken by the author and her 
friends. 



Scottish 
dame* of 
distinction. 



" A Group of Scottish "Women " 
( Duffield ) is the title chosen by Mr. 
Harry Graham for his collection of 
character sketches of representative North British 
leaders of the fair sex. Seven centuries, from the 
thirteenth to the nineteenth, have been drawn upon 
for illustrative matter, and a score or more of noted 
women, from Dervorguilla to Miss Clementina 
Stirling Graham, are passed in review, with fifteen 
more or less authentic portraits to increase the 
interest. Various are the types of character repre- 
sented : thus we have Elspeth Buchan, the religious 
fanatic ; Lady Grisell BaUlie, the stout-hearted and 
resourceful patriot, "a pattern of her sex, and an 



232 



THE DIAL 



[April 1, 



honour to her country," as her epitaph puts it ; Jane, 
Duchess of Gordon, the politician ; " Black Agnes " 
of Dunbar, the Scottish Amazon; Miss "Nicky". 
Murray, the leader of fashion ; Miss Anne Barnard, 
the woman of the world ; Mrs. Grant of Laggan, 
the blue-stocking ; and others of sundry sorts of 
eminence. Of remarkable range has been the 
author's reading among old memoirs and chronicles, 
and most diligent his note-taking. His authorities 
of course vary in historical value, but are given for 
no more than they are worth. In referring to the 
death of the Regent Murray, Mr. Graham says that 
" an old historical legend long attributed the murder 
... to Hamilton of Bothwellhaugh " — as if there 
were any reasonable doubt in the matter, whereas 
the time, the place, and the manner of the assassina- 
tion are definitely determined on good evidence, the 
very weapon with which the deed was done is pre- 
served, and the red-handed James Hamilton, noted 
for such bloody enterprises, stands pretty clearly 
convicted of Murray's untimely taking-off. The 
book is the work of a hand experienced in this sort 
of collective biography, and shows care and skill in 
its making, though one error at least (probably a 
misprint) has crept in, by which Patrick, tenth Earl 
of Dunbar, is made to die three centuries after his 
time. There is abundance of anecdote and other 
entertaining as well as historically memorable matter 
in the volume. 

IT- „i ...■^.... A volume of Professor Pasquale 
Final vtewt . "i 

of a great Villari s " otudies, Historical and 

historian. Critical," translated by the venerable 

historian's devoted wife, has been issued by Messrs. 
Scribner's Sons. The first and longest of these 
seven essays, turning on the question, *'Is History 
a Science ? " possesses unusual value, not ©nly as a 
summary of past and current thought on the relation 
between investigation and literary art, but as coming 
at the end of a fruitful career from a scholar who has 
known how to combine the methodical diligence of 
the Germans with certain more gracious qualities of 
sentiment and style which now seem to be the prop- 
erty of the Italians even more than of the French. 
To this greatest of living historians, the amassing 
and ordering of minute detail, and the whole rational 
procedure of scholarship, are nothing if they do not 
contribute to the advancement of an ideal and an 
art of human life. As with the purely rational 
element in historical investigation, so with a mere 
political faith : this " cannot suffice to consolidate 
the existence of a free and civUized people unless it 
be sustained by a nobler human ideal. Wherefore, 
the chief aim of our literature and science should 
be to revive this ideal in the heart of our nation." 
Of the other six essays — on Cavour, Settembrini, 
DeSanctis, Morelli, Donatello, and Savonarola — 
possibly the most inspiring is that on DeSanctis, 
since it is a subtle and loving analysis of the method 
and achievement of Professor Villari's own teacher, 
in the light of more recent tendencies among students 
and critics of literature and the other fine arts. 



However, it is unfair to single out any one of the 
seven essays, as if all of them were not character- 
ized by delicacy of touch, richness of allusion, 
strength of perspective, and a crowning philosophy 
in which the activities of the historian, critic, edu- 
cator, and patriotic statesman are made one. The 
illustrations, beginning with a photogravure of the 
author and including one of DeSanctis, deserve 
special mention. . ___^ 

Some German ^ix years before his death in 1879, 
utters for Johannes Brahms sent to his pub- 
music-ivvers. ligher a document which he called 
his last will and testament, wherein he gave direc- 
tions that all letters found in his house were to be 
destroyed. But when his executor took charge of 
his effects, it was decided that the so-called will was 
too hastily and informally drafted to be legally valid, 
and that it had probably been written in a moment 
of irritation and was not to be interpreted literally. 
Accordingly there was rescued the budget of letters 
from Heinrich and Elisabet von Herzogenberg, and 
they, with Brahms's letters to these warm friends 
of his, were edited and published. An English 
version of the correspondence, entitled "Johannes 
Brahms : The Herzogenberg Correspondence " 
(Dutton), is now issued ; the translator, whose work 
seems to be very carefully done, being Miss Hannah 
Bryant. The musical experiences and compositions, 
the professional ideals and aspirations, of the three 
writers of these letters are the favorite topics dis- 
cussed by them, with all sorts of variations and with 
the occasional introduction of homelier themes. The 
friendship between the bachelor composer and the 
Herzogenbergs was intimate and beautiful. Brahms 
writes, in a letter to Heinrich on the death of his 
wife, near the end of the volume : " You know how 
unutterably I myself suffer by the loss of your 
beloved wife, ... It would do me so much good 
just to sit beside you quietly, press your hand, and 
share your thoughts of the dear marvellous woman." 
A portrait of Brahms precedes the letters, and 
abundant footnotes clear up all perplexities in the 
text. 

The course of ^^' Lawrence Oilman belongs to the 
operatic art class of musical critics and essayists 
since Wagner. capable of dissecting what might be 
called the anatomy of music. He points out that 
since Richard Wagner ceased to be a dynamic fig- 
ure in the life of the world, the history of operatic 
art has been, save for a few conspicuous exceptions, 
a barren and improfitable page. In " Aspects of 
Modern Music" (John Lane Co.), Mr. Oilman 
gives us, with uncommon discrimination and power 
of analysis, chapters on the Wagnerian aftermath, 
a view of Puccini, the art and morals of Strauss's 
"Salome," and his conception of a perfect music 
drama. The author's views and opinions are care- 
fully formed though sometimes radical in expression. 
He pronounces Debussy's " Pelleas et Melisande " 
a masterly piece of psychological and subliminal 
delineation, and believes that there is nothing in 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



233 



contemporaneous musical art which in the remotest 
degree resembles it in impulse or character. " That, 
as an example of the ideal welding of drama and 
music, it will exert a formative or suggestive influ- 
ence, it is not now possible to say; but that its 
extraordinary importance as a work of art will 
compel an ever-widening appreciation seems to 
many certain and indisputable. Thinking of this 
score, Debussy might justly say, with Coventry Pat- 
more, ' I have respected posterity.' " Mr. Oilman's 
book is well worth reading, as it contains matter 
that will awaken new thoughts and stimulate dis- 
cussion on musical themes. 



The honorable 9°® does not associate genealogical 
ancestry of investigations with Abraham Lm- 

Lincoin. ^q^q . ]^jg genius has always stood as 

typical of the democratic ideal, which makes no 
account of ancestors and moulds the most discourag- 
ing environment to its own ends. But with the 
centenary appears an admirer of the great American 
who believes firmly in hereditary genius, resents the 
slurs that have been put upon Lincoln's family, par- 
ticularly upon his father and mother, and who has 
pursued his favorite occupation of record-hunting in 
this country and England to the end of showing that 
the Lincolns occupied an honorable position in both 
countries. " The Ancestry of Abraham Lincoln " 
is the title of Mr. J. Henry Lea's book. In the 
investigations conducted in England he had the 
assistance of Mr. J. R. Hutchinson, who is acknow- 
ledged on the title-page as joint author. The 
Houghton Mifflin Co. publish the work in the form 
of a large octavo, with elegance of typography and 
binding, and many interesting illustrations repro- 
duced in photogravure. Mr. Lea's conclusions are 
to the effect that the Lincolns of Hingham, England, 
were " ostensible yeomen with a dominant strain of 
gentle blood in their veins," while the Ketts of 
Wymondham were true patriots, though unfortunate 
ones, two of them dying in behalf of the common 
weal. In America, also, the family can boast many 
worthy and even distinguished members. As for 
Thomas Lincoln, he was a good man, though not a 
great one ; a rover perhaps, but not a thriftless 
rolling-stone or a " restless squatter." He fought 
a good fight against cruelly heavy odds ; and his 
honesty, truth, humor, and good-nature were a 
valuable heritage to his famous son. An appendix 
contains a number of documents, in the original 
wordings, — wills, deeds, letters, etc. Altogether 
Mr. Lea's contribution is decidedly the most original 
that the centenary has evoked. 



Old French 
prints and 
their charm. 



Collectors or would-be collectors of 
prints will find Mr. Ralph Nevill's 
" French Prints of the Eighteenth 
Century " (Macmillan) an excellent guide to a little- 
known division of an art of which almost nothing 
has been written in English. There are two main 
parts of the book : An account of the lives and work 
of the great line-engravers and makers of color- 



prints, with some general suggestions for amateur 
collectors ; and a catalogue of the most important 
French engravings of the eighteenth century, grouped 
under an alphabetical arrangement of artists' names, 
and accompanied by brief descriptions, and notes on 
the various states. There are two indexes, one to 
artists, the other to paintings and engravings ; and 
fifty full-page plates, illustrating varied and delight- 
ful examples of the estampe galante, with its pretty 
portrayal of the dainty, frivolous, eminently deco- 
rative pastimes and foUies of the old regime. The 
second part of the book is of course for reference ; 
the first is not too detailed or technical to lack 
interest for the general reader. Mr. Nevill laments 
the slight attention paid, outside of France, to 
French prints which, both as art and as a reflection 
of life, are worthy of serious consideration. 



BRIEFER MENTION. 



Mr. Alexander J, Philips is the compiler of "A Dickens 
Dictionary " now published by Messrs. E. P. Dutton & 
Co. It provides, in a stout volume, an alphabetical 
index of both the characters and the scenes that appear 
in the novels and miscellaneous writings of Charles 
Dickens. The letters are not catalogued, nor is the 
" Child's History of England." The compiler expects 
in course of time to give us a " Dickens Encyclopsedia," 
still more comprehensive in its plan than the present 
work. 

It is much easier to find authorities for the study of 
the old masters of painting than for the study of modern 
painters — those who are Uving and working to-day, or 
who have but recently left us. " The Art of Painting in 
the Nineteenth Century " (Ginn) is a convenient hand- 
book prepared by Dr. Edmund von Mach, recently 
Instructor of the Fine Arts at Harvard. French, Ger- 
man, British, and American Painting are discussed, each 
in a separate chapter; Italy, Spain, and the Netherlands 
are classed together in one chapter; Russia, Denmark, 
and Scandinavia in another. A book of 170 pages 
covering so large a field implies that little more than 
brief sketches of principal names has been possible. But 
the preface warns us not to expect " art-criticism, nor 
clever and pithy sayings," so we need not be misled. 
There are thirty-two fidl-page illustrations. 

« Some Notable Altars in the Church of England and 
the American Episcopal Church " are pictured in fine 
quarto-sized plates and briefly described by Rev. John 
Wright, D.D., rector of St. Paul's Church in St. Paul, 
in a handsome volume published by the Macmillan Co. 
As the principal object of the work is to furnish definite 
information and practical suggestions for the building 
or enrichment of altars, the descriptions are brief but 
expUcit ; and wherever possible names of architects and 
the cost of construction are stated. It is only within 
the last century that the American Episcopal Church 
has paid much attention to church enrichment, but some 
beautiful effects have been secured, less pretentious but 
no less artistic than those of the great old-world Cathe- 
drals, and particularly rich in mural paintings. The 
examples illustrated in the present volume exhibit a 
wide variety in style and in expense, especial effort hav- 
ing been made to furnish suggestions for moderate 
priced designs. 



234 



THE DIAL 



[April 1, 



Notes. 



Mr. Bliss Perry, editor of " The Atlantic Monthly," 
has just been appointed Hyde Lecturer at the University 
of Paris for the academic year 1909-10. Mr. Perry 
will discuss American Institutions, but the exact nature 
of his subject is not yet announced. , 

" The New Philosophy of Life Series," a series of 
essays by Rev. J. Herman Randall of Mount Morris 
Baptist Church, New York, is announced by the H. M. 
Caldwell Co. The first volume of the series, entitled 
" The Real God," will appear this month. 

An admirable little book for boys and girls who are 
beginning to take a serious interest in the world around 
them is Professor Paul S. Reinsch's "The Yoimg 
Citizen's Reader," published by Messrs. B. H. Sanborn 
& Co. It makes a good school reader, and a good book 
for young people to read outside of school. 

Mr. William Young has edited from the (third) edition 
of 1652, " The Saints' Everlasting Rest," by Richard 
Baxter. Extensive omissions have been made, but the 
volume is still a stout one, and gives us the substance 
of this famous religious classic in handsome library 
form. The J. B. Lippincott Co. are the publishers. 

The spring publications of Mr. B. W. Huebsch will 
include a volume of short stories, " Beyond the Sky 
Line," by "Robert Aitken"; "The Marvellous Year," 
a memorial volume of the present year of great cen- 
tenaries, to which Mr. Edwin Markham supplies an 
introduction; and "Product and Climax," by Mr. S. N. 
Patten, a new volume in " The Art of Life" series. 

Besides a number of novels, Mr. Mitchell Kennerley 
will publish this Spring a two- volume study of " The 
Empires of the Far East," by Mr. Lancelot Lawton; 
" The Cities of Spain," by Mr. Royall Tyler; " ApoUonius 
of Tyana," a study of his life and times, by Dr. F. W. 
Groves Campbell ; a brief biography of Rossetti, by Mr. 
Frank Rutter; and " Effective Magazine Advertising," 
by Mr. Francis Bellamy. 

Through an error, it was recently announced that the 
biography of the Hon. Mrs. Norton, to be brought out 
here by Messrs. Holt, and in England by Mr. John 
Murray, was the work of "Miss Alice Perkins." It 
should have been credited to Miss Jane Perkins, who is 
a sister-in-law of Professor Edward Everett Hale, Jr., 
the author of " Dramatists of To-day" and editor of a 
number of English classics. 

A new book by Professor Hugo Munsterberg, of 
Harvard University, is announced by Houghton Mifflin 
Company. " The Eternal Values," as it will be called, 
first appeared last year in Germany. The success of 
the German edition now leads the author to publish the 
work in English, not as a mere translation, but with 
certain side issues omitted, and many new parts added 
which link it more closely with practical life. 

The Grafton Press publishes a volume of translations, 
by Mr. Daniel Joseph Donahoe, of " Early Christian 
Hymns," including the most famous examples of these 
compositions from the time of the Fathers down to such 
men of a later period as Abelard, Bernard of Clairvaux, 
Bonaventure, Thomas Aquinas, and Pope Urban VIII. 
This gives us a Christian anthology of great value, the 
versions being both scholarly and melodious. 

The American Book Co. publish " Aiken's Music 
Course," by Mr. Walter H. Aiken, in a single volume; 
" Nature Study by Grades," a teachers' manual by Mr. 
Horace H. Cummings; and "Essentials in Civil Gov- 



ernment," a book for elementary schools by Dr. S. E. 
Forman. We can particularly recommend the last- 
named book, written by the author of the " Advanced 
Civics " which a good many teachers have recently 
discovered to be the best text-book of the subject that 
has ever been prepared for use in the American high 
school. 

The city of Chelsea (Mass.), fire-swept a year ago 
and bereft of its public library, together with other 
municipal buildings and hundreds of private dwellings, 
is soon to have a new library building, largely through 
the generosity of Mr. Carnegie, who has given $50,000 
for the purpose. Plans have been drawn and accepted 
for an attractive and, in its internal arrangement, admir- 
ably convenient and serviceable structure, on which 
building operations are expected to begin immediately. 

The American publishing rights for General Kuro- 
patkin's "Military Memoirs" have been secured by 
Messrs. E. P. Dutton & Co., who will issue the work 
almost immediately. In the Memoirs, General Kuro- 
patkin frankly discusser the policies which led up to the 
Russo-Japanese War, and gives a full account of the 
conflict. The English version of the book is by Captain 
A. B. Lindsay, translator of Nojine's "The Truth 
about Port Arthur," and it is edited by Major E. S. 
Swinton, D.S.O. 

Ibsen's posthumous works, as we learn from the 
London " Nation," are now in the printers' hands, and 
are announced to appear within the next few months. 
The volumes will undoubtedly throw a new and clearer 
light upon many Ibsen problems. They will, we under- 
stand, prove the futility of much speculation and criti- 
cism, at which Ibsen himself often smiled as being too 
subtle and far-fetched. The contents include first drafts 
of many of Ibsen's works, and thus show the original 
keynote from which he started. 

The one hundredth anniversary of the birth of Oliver 
Wendell Holmes occurs on August 29 next, but it will 
be celebrated by a memorial meeting in Sanders Thea- 
tre, Cambridge, Mass., on Tuesday evening, April 27. 
President Eliot will preside, and brief addresses will be 
delivered by Dr. Edward Waldo Emerson of Concord, 
Col. Thomas W. Higginson, Dr. David W. Cheever, and 
the Rev. Samuel M. Crothers. Music will be furnished 
by the Harvard Glee Club and the orchestra of the 
Cambridge Latin school. Mr. Charles Townsend Cope- 
land will read two of Dr. Holmes's poems, — " The Last 
Leaf " and " The Chambered Nautilus." The meeting 
will be under the auspices of the Cambridge Historical 
Society, and among the invited guests will be the grad- 
uates of the Harvard Medical School between 1847 and 
1882. 

Sturgis & Walton Company is the style of a new 
publishing firm which has just been established in New 
York City. The members of the firm are Lyman B. 
Sturgis, who was vice-president of the MacmiUan Com- 
pany for a number of years, and Lawton L. Walton, 
who was secretary of the MacmiUan Company and head 
of the manufacturing department for upwards of sixteen 
years. Sturgis & Walton Company announce for early 
Spring publication a revised and enlarged edition of a 
work by James J. Williamson, on " Mosby's Rangers," 
a record of the operations of the Forty-third BattaUon 
Virginia Cavalry known as "Mosby's Rangers"; an 
attractive edition of " The Lost Tales of Miletus," by 
Sir Edward Bulwer-Lytton, which has been out of print 
for many years; a new edition of Charles Waterton's 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



236 



" Wanderings in South America," with a memoir of the 
author by Dr. Norman Moore, an introduction and six- 
teen full-page illustrations by Charles Livingston Bull, 
who made a trip to Guiana in the Spring of 1908, going 
over exactly the same ground covered by Waterton; 
also, a reprint, in two volumes, with illustrations and 
map, of the second edition of Benjamin F. Thompson's 
" History of Long Island." Besides these works they 
have in preparation three series, — " The Swan Dram- 
atists," a selected series of the great plays in English 
literature, such as Christopher Marlowe's " Doctor 
Faustus," John Webster's " Duchess of Malfi," Gold- 
smith's " She Stoops to Conquer," and others equally 
important, which will contain sufficient critical matter 
to make them of interest to the general reader and also 
suitable for class use; " The Deepwater Series," popular 
tales of the sea, including classics like "Two Years 
before the Mast" by Richard Henry Dana, Jr., " The 
Red Rover" by J. Fenimore Cooper, " The Wreck of the 
Grosvenor" by W. Clark Russell, and others; " Familiar 
Friends Series," a collection of good books for boys 
and girls, to include " Cousin PhiUis" by Mrs. Gaskell, 
"Milly and Oily" by Mrs. Humphry Ward, "The 
Heroes" by Charles Kingsley, "Gypsy Breynton" by 
Elizabeth Stuart Phelps, and others. 



Topics in IiEADistg Periodical,s. 

April, 1909. 

Alaska-Yukon Fair, The. L. P. Zimmerman. World To-d&y. 

Alcoholism : Its Cause and Cure. S. McComb. Everybody's. 

America, A United. L. S. Bowe. JS^orth American. 

America's Plant Food, Saving. G. E. Mitchell. Rev. of Revs. 

American Art, Sincerity Needed in. Craftsman. 

American Racing on British Turf. O. Sevier. Munsey. 

American Shrines. Famous. Harry Thurston Peck. Munsey. 

Antony and Cleopatra. Quglielmo Ferrero. Putnam. 

Architecture and National Character. Craftsman. 

Army Post, a Western, Letters from. G. M. A. Roe. Appleton. 

Authors and Public Affairs. Brander Matthews. No. American. 

Babies, A Square Deal for the. Rheta C. Dorr. Hampton's. 

Bachelor Girls, Royal. F. Cunliffe-Owen. Munsey. 

Backyard Gardens. M. R. Cranston. Craftsman. 

Bastida, Joaquin Sarolla y. J. W. Pattison. World To-day. 

Bastida. Joaquin Sarolla y. K. M. Roof. Craftsman. 

Battleships, Dangers to Our. Robley D. Evans. Hampton's. 

Beersheba, Beyond. Norman Duncan. Harper. 

Biology. Predarwinian and Postdarwinian. Popular Science. 

Booth, Edwin, and Lincoln. Century. 

Business, Imagination in. L. F. Deland. Atlantic. 

Byron and the Countess Guiccioli. L. Orr. Munsey. 

Caine, Hall, Autobiography of — VIII. Appleton. 

Cardinals, For Six American. H.J.Desmond. No. American. 

Carving in Architecture. E. A. Batchelder. Craftsman. 

Cave Men, In the Day of the. Harvey B. Bashore. Lippincott. 

Chariot Races, The American. C. F. Holder. World To-day. 

Chicago. Charles Henry White. Harper. 

Chicago's Italian Pageant. M. Johnson. Putnam. 

Child Labor and the Churches. C. F. Aked. Appleton. 

Child Labor in Textile Factories. F. L. Sanville. No. American. 

China, Empress Dowager of. I. T. Headland. Cosmopolitan. 

Chun. Prince of China. I. T. Headland. Century. 

Civic Improvement in Boston. Craftsjnan. 

Cleveland's Opinions of Men. G. F. Parker. McClure. 

Concrete for Church Architecture. Craftsman. 

Congo Question. The. Felix H. Hunicke. North American. 

Cotton Trade, Building up Our. D. J. Sully. Cosmopolitan. 

Critics' Strike, The. James L. Ford. Appleton. 

Cymbeline, Shakespeare's. T. Watts-Dunton. Harper. 

Darwin and Botany. Nathaniel L. Britton. Popular Science. 

Darwin and Geology. J. J. Stevenson. Popular Science. 

Darwin and Zoology. H. C. Bumpus. Popular Science. 

Darwin, Charles. Leonard Huxley. Putnam. 

Darwin, Charles, Individuality of. C. F. Cox. Popular Science. 

Darwin, For. T. H. Morgan. Popular Science. 

Darwin, Life and Works of. H. F. Osborn. Popular Science. 

Decoration, Mediaeval. E. A. Batchelder. Craftsman. 

Dry Farming, The Truth about. C. M. Harger. Rev. of Revs. 



Dyestuffs, Modern, in Stencilling. C. E. Pellew. Craftsman. 
Earle, George H., Jr. Richard Jarvis. Hampton's. 
Education. The New, in China. Paul S. Reinsch. Atlantic. 
English Town, An, from an American Viewpoint. Scribner. 
Evolution of Man. John Burroughs. Atlantic. 
FitzGerald, " Omar." Henry D. Sedgwick. Putnam. 
Fur- Traders as Empire-Builders — II. C.M.Harvey. Atlantic. 
Gardens, Water in Small. Craftsman. 
Hadley. Governor, of Missouri. L. C. Dyer. Munsey. 
Hague, the. Diplomatic Life at. Mme. de Bussen. Harper. 
Harem, Prisoners of the. E. A. Powell. Everybody's. 
Harmon, Governor Judson, of Ohio. S. Gordon. Munsey. 
Harris. Joel Chandler. J. W. Lee. Century. 
Housemaid, The Mechanical. M. McDowell. Appleton. 
House Rules, The: A Criticism. C. A. Swanson. Rev. of Revs. 
House Rules. The: A Defense. F. C. Stevens. Rev. of Revs, 
Immortals, The Forty. Jeanne Mairet. Atlantic. 
Inaugurating Taft. Hugh Weir. World To-day. 
India, The Future of. Charles F. Thwing. North American. 
Indian, Last Stand of the. Emerson Hough. Hampton's. 
Industrial Civilization. E. Bjorkman. World's Work. 
Insurance Risks. Q. W. Wharton. World's Work. 
Insurance Supervision. D. P. Kingsley. North American. 
Ivory Trade, The. Mrs. H. R. Childs. McClure. 
Japanese Trade and the Peace of Asia. World's Work. 
Jefferson, Joseph, at Home. E. P. Jefferson. Century. 
Jericho Rediscovered. R. C. Long. World To-day. 
Joan of Arc. Henry J. Markland. Munsey. 
Knox's Qualifications for the Cabinet. World's Work. 
Lawlessness. Charles W. Eliot. Putnam. 
Lawns and Gardens, Adorning. C. A. Byers. Craftsman. 
Lifelnsurance, Romance of —XL W.J.Graham. WorldTo-day. 
Lincoln and Wilkes Booth. M. H. P. Moss. Century. 
Lincoln's Assassination. Julia A. Shepard. Century, 
Lincoln's Interest in the Theatre. L. Grover. Century. 
Lowell, A. Lawrence. Wm. R. Thayer. Century. 
MacKay. Mrs. Clarence, on Woman Suffrage. Munsey. 
Margin Game, Workings of the. John Parr. Everybody's. 
Meissen and Dresden. R. H. SchaufSer. Century. 
Messina Earthquake, After the. Robert Hichens. Century. 
Messina Earthquake. The. F. A. Perret. Century. 
National Budget, Regulating the. G. B. Cortelyou. No.Amer. 
Natural Resources. Wasting Our. R. Cronau. McClure. 
Natural Selection, First Presentation of Theory of. Pop. Science, 
Natural Selection, Origin of Theory of. Popular Science. 
Naval Gunnery Records. Breaking. S. E. White. World's Work. 
Navy, Our, Cost of. Lucia A. Mead. World To-day. 
Nero. Guglielmo Ferrero. McClure. 
Night-Riding. Eugene P. Lyle, Jr. Hampton's. 
Opera in New York. W. J. Henderson. World's Work. 
Opium Crusade in China, The. J. S. Thomson. World To-day. 
Painting, Mural, and Architecture. W. L. Price. Craftsman. 
Panama, The Situation at. Forbes Lindsay. Review of Reviews. 
Parthenon. The, via Europe. F. Hopkinson Smith. Scribner. 
Photography as an Art. G. Edgerton. Craftsman. 
Piatt, Thomas C, Reminiscences of. Cosmopolitan. 
Plottinsr the Upper Air. P. P. Foster. Review of Reviews. 
Poets, Spring, A Nosegay of. L. Hatch. Atlantic. 
Porto Rico as a Fruit Garden. H. M. Lome. World To-day. 
Race Problem. The Ultimate. Kelly Miner. Atlantic. 
Rag-Fair Day in Rome, A. Gardner Teall. World To-day. 
Railroad Problem, Heart of the. C. E. Russell. Hampton's. 
Railroads and Efficient Service. J. O. Fagan. Atlantic. 
Railway Rates and the Diminished Dollar. North American. 
Railways, Valuation of. J. L. Laughlin. Scribner. 
Religion and Temperament. George Hodges. Atlantic. 
Rivers that Work. J. L. Mathews. Everybody's. 
Rockefeller, John D., Reminiscences of. World's Work. 
Roosevelt, The Passing of. Thomas W. Lawson. Evo-ybody's. 
Russian Spy System, A Phase of. H. Rosenthal. Rev. of Revs, 
Saint-Gaudens, Augustus, Reminiscences of. Century. 
Sardine Fisheries of Passamaquoddy. World To-day. 
Saskatchewan, Down the. Agnes Laut. Scribner. 
Sealing Voyage, A. George Harding. Haiper. 
Sherman, General, Letters of. M. A. DeW. Howe. Scribner. 
Sicily, Dec., 1908. Henry and Tertius -van Dyke. Century. 
Sicily, Land of Unrest. Emily J. Putnam. Putnam. 
Slums. .Esthetic Pleasures of the. R. L. Hartt. Atlantic. 
Soil Erosion in the South. W. W. Ashe. Review of Reviews. 
Specialization, Disadvantages of. S. Morse. Craftsman. 
Spinal Meningitis, Conquering. B. J. Hendrick. McClure. 
Stock Broker's Confessions, A. Everybody's. 
Story, The Western. Ellis O. Jones. Lippincott. 
Surgical Progress, Recent. W. W. Keen. Harpe)-. 
Taft and the Sherman Act. T. Thacher. North American. 
Tariff Laws, Europe's. F. A. Ogg. Revieiv of Reviews. 
Trusts vs. Competition. M. N. Stiles. World's Work. 



236 



THE DIAL 



[April 1, 



Wall street Machine, The. Franlr Fayant. Appleton. 
Waste, Eliminating. M. Q. Seckendorff. Muntey. 
Welles, Gideon, Diary of — III. Atlantic. 
Wireless Telegraphy, Development of. A. D.H.Smith. Putnam. 
Wolf-Hunting by Automobile. C. M. Harger. World To-day. 
Woman Suffrage in the U. 8. Ida N. Harper. North American. 
Women, Working, and the Home. Wm. Hard. Everybody's. 
Yellow Peril, The. Moreton Frewen. North Am,erican. 
Yosemite, The: San Francisco vs. the Nation. Wo7-ld'» Work. 



liiST OF New Books. 



[The following list, containing 80 titles, includes books 
received by The Dial since its last issue.^ 

BIGGBAPH'S' AND BEMIXISCESTCES. 

My Story. By Hall Caine. lUus., 12mo, pp. 402. D. Appleton 
& Co. |2. net. 

The Sisters of Napoleon : Elisa, Pauline, and Caroline Bona- 
parte, after the Testimony of Their Contemporaries. By 
Joseph Turquan ; trans, and edited by W. R. H. Trowbridge. 
Illus. in photogravure, etc., 8vo, pp. 320. Charles Scribner's 
Sons. S3.75 net. 

The Frincesse de Lamballe : A Biography. By B. C. Hardy. 
Illus. in photogravure, 8vo, pp. 312. D. Appleton & Co. 
13.50 net. 

A liif e of John Colet, D.D., Dean of St. Paul's and Founder 
of St. Paul's School, with an Appendix of Some of His En- 
glish Writings. By J. H. Lupton, D.D. New edition ; with 
frontispiece in photogravure, large 8vo, pp. 323. Macmillan 
Co. 12.75 net. 

Abraham Ldnooln : An Appreciation by One Who Knew Him. 
By Benjamin Rush Cowen. 12mo, pp. 63. Robert Clarke 
Co. $1. net. 

HISTORY. 

Statistical and Chronolosrical History of the United 

States Navy, 1775-1907. By Robert Wilden Neeser. In 2 

vols., 4to. Macmillan Co. $12. net. 
New liigrht on Ancient Egrpyt. By G. Maspero; trans, by 

Elizabeth Lee. Illus. in photogravure, etc., large 8vo, pp. 316. 

D. Appleton & Co. $4. net. 
The Repeal of the Missouri Compromise : Its Origin and 

Authorship. By P. Orman Ray, Ph.D. Large 8vo, pp. 315. 

Arthur H. Clark Co. $3.50 net. 
France Since Waterloo. By W. Grinton Berry, M.A. Illus., 

12mo, pp. 382. Charles Scribner's Sons. $1.50 net. 

GENEBAJL LITERATURE. 
Beethoven's Iietters. Edited, with explanatory notes, by Dr. 

A. C. Kalischer ; trans., with preface, by J. S. Shedlock, B.A. 

In 2 vols., illus. in photogravure, etc., large 8vo. B. P. 

Dutton & Co. f7.50 net. 
The Springs of Helicon: A Study in the Progress of English 

Poetry from Chaucer to Milton. By J. W. Mackail. 8vo, 

pp. 204. Longmans, Green, & Co. $1.25 net. 
American Verse. 1625-1807 : A History. By William Bradley 

Otis, Ph.D. 12mo, pp. 303. Moffat, Yard & Co. $1.75 net. 
Shelbume Essays, Sixth Series : Studies of Religious Dual- 
ism. By Paul Elmer More. 12mo, pp. 355. G. P. Putnam's 

Sons. $1.25 net. 
A History of Qerman Lilteratore. By Calvin Thomas, LL.D. 

12mo, pp. 430. D. Appleton & Co. $1.50 net. 
Shakespeare and His Critics. By Charles F. Johnson, Litt.D. 

12mo, pp. 386. Houghton Miflftin Co. $1.50 net. 
My Cranford : A Phase of the Quiet Life. By Arthur Oilman. 

Illus., 12mo, pp. 225. Houghton Mifflin Co. $1.25 net. 
The Heroine. By Eaton Stannard Barrett ; with Introduction 

by Walter Raleigh. 12mo, pp. 298. Oxford University Press. 

90 cts. net. 
Voluspa. Trans, from the Icelandic of the Elder Edda by 

Ananda K. Coomaraswamy. 12mo, pp. 29. London: Essex 

House Press. 
The Confessions of Al Qhazzali. Trans, by Claud Field, M.A. 

16mo, pp. 60. " Wisdom of the East Series." E. P. Dutton 

& Co. 40 cts. net. 

NEW EDITIONS OF STANDARD LITERATURE. 
The Works of Victor Hugo. New vols. : History of a Crime, 
2 vols. ; Napoleon the Little, 1 vol. ; Poems, 2 vols. ; Dramatic 
Works, 3 vols. Each with frontispiece in photogravure, 
12mo. " Handy Library Edition." Little, Brown, & Co. 
Per vol., $1. net. 

(Continued on next page) 



THE 

Mosher 
Books 

The only collec- 
tion of genu- 
ine hand-made 
paper hooks at 
popular prices 
in e/Jmerica. 



THE 

MOSHER BOOKS 

CATALOGUE 



My Newr Catalogue covering 
every title I have published, 
1891-1908 inclusive, is now 
ready, and will be mailed free 
on request. It is without ques- 
tion a bibelot in itself and as 
choice a production as I can 
hope to offer. 

Thomas B. Mosher 

PORTLAND, MAINE 



SEND FOR NEW CATALOGUES 

OLD AND RARE NATURAL HISTORY, 
AMERICANA, Etc. 

FRANKLIN BOOKSHOP, 920 Walnut St., PHILADELPHIA 

"HUMPHRY CLINKER" FREE! We wiU send you, compli- 
mentary, Smollett's rare novel, cloth bound, all charges paid. Broadly 
humorous; Thackeray called it "most laughable story ever written." 
Ask price at bookstore, then send only $1. for a year's subscription to 
the Pathfinder — the bright weekly national review, and get book free. 
PATHFINDER PUBLISHING CO., Washington, D. C. 

DANTE'S INFERNO 

Edited, with introduction, armaments, and footnotes, by 

Professor C. H. GRANDGENT, of Harvard University. 

Cloth. 819 pasres. $1.26. 

Unnecessary erudition has been discarded, but all information requi- 
site for the understanding of Dante and his poem has been included. 

D. C. HEATH & CO., PUBLISHERS 

BOSTON NEW YORK CHICAGO LONDON 

AVTI I INf^ WORKER wants literary work. Doctor of 
'''**-'•-•**" ^J philosophy, encyclopedist, proofreader, 
translator six laneua^es, typewriter. H. B., care Thb Dial. 



A New Volume in The Art of Life Series. 
Edward Howard Origgs, Editor. 

SELF-MEASUREMENT 

A Scale of Human Values with Directions for Personal Application 
By WILLIAM DE WITT HYDE, President of BowdoinCoUege. 

At all bookstores. 50 cts net; postpaid, 55 cts. 
B. W. HUEBSCH PUBLISHER NEW YOBY CITY 



WILLIAM R. JENKINS CO. fS^;^:f.7K;^ 

851-863 SIXTH AVE.. Cor. 48th St., NEW YORK 



FRENCH 

AND OTHBB 
FOBSION 

BOOKS 

Complete cata- 
logs on request. 



BEAD OTTS 

ROMANS CHOISIS. 26 Titles. Paper 
60 cts., cloth 85 cts. per volume. CONTES 
CHOISIS. 24 Titles. Paper 25 cts., cloth 
40 eta. per volume. Masterpieces, pure, by well- 
known authors. Read extensively by classes; 
notes in English. List on application. 



BOOKBINDING 

PLAIN AND ARTISTIC. IN ALL VARIETIES OF 
LEATHER 

HENRY BLACKWELL 

University Place and 10th Street, New York City 



1909.] 



THE DIAL. 



237 



LIST OF NEW BOOKS — continued 
The Saints' Everlasting: Sest : A Treatise of the Blessed 

State of the Saints in Their Enjoyment of God in Glory. 

By Richard Baxter ; edited by William Young. B. A. With 

portrait in photogravure, 12mo, pp. 477. J. B. Lippincott 

Co. $2.50 net. 
The Works of Budyard Kipliner, Pocket Edition. New vol. : 

Under the Deodars. 12mo, pp. 344. Doubleday, Page & C!o. 

$1.50 net. 
The First Folio Shakespeare. Edited by Charlotte Porter 

and Helen A. Clarke. New vols.: All's Well that Ends 

Well ; The Merry Wives of Windsor ; Measure for Measure. 

Each with frontispiece in photogravure, 16mo. Thomas Y. 

Crowell & Co. Per vol., 75 cts. net. 
The Flayers' Ibsen. Newly translated from the definitive 

Dano-Norwegian text ; edited, with Introduction and Notes, 

by Henry L. Mencken. First vols. : A Doll's House ; Little 

Eyolf. EachlSmo. John W.Luce & Co. Per vol., 75 cts. net. 

FICTION. 

The Story of Thyrza. By Alice Brown. With frontispiece 
in color, 8vo, pp. 327. Houghton Mifflin Co. $1.35 net. 

Fraternity. By John Galsworthy. 12mo, pp. 386. G. P. Put- 
nam's Son's. $1.35 net. 

The Iiittle Gods : A Masque of the Far East. By Rowland 
Thomas. Illus.. 12mo, pp. 304. Little, Brown, & Co. $1.50. 

The House with No Address. ByE.Nesbit. 12mo, pp. 340. 
Doubleday, Page & Co. $1.50. 

The Han in Lower Ten. By Mary Roberts Rinehart. lUus., 
12mo, pp. 372. Bobbs-Merrill Co. $1.50. 

Irresolute Catherine. By Violet Jacob. 12mo, pp. 174. 
Doubleday, Page & Co. $1. 

The Butler's Story. By Arthur Train. Illus.. 12mo, pp. 242. 
Charles Scribner's Sons. $1.25. 

Hach Ado about Peter. By Jean* Webster. Illus., 12mo, 
pp. 300. Doubleday, Page & Co. $1.50. 

The Whips of Time. By Arabella Kenealy. Illus., 12mo. 
pp. 373. Little, Brown, & Co. $1.50. 

Syrinx. By Lawrence North. With frontispiece in tint, 12mo, 
pp.293. Duffleld&Co. $1.50. 

The Cords of Vanity. By James Branch Cabell. With frontis- 
piece in color, 12mo, pp. 341. Doubleday, Page &, Co. $1.60. 

Uncle Gregory. By George Sandeman. 12mo, pp. 284. Q. P. 
Putnam's Sons. $1.50. 

The Watchers of the Plains : A Tale of the Western Prairies. 
By Ridgwell CuUum. With frontispiece in color, 12mo, 
pp. 374. George W. Jacobs & Co. $1.50. 

John Silence : Physician Extraordinary. By Algernon Black- 
wood. l2mo. pp. 390. John W. Luce & Co. $1.50. 

Xa Caveme : Roman de Pr6histoire et Introduction Docu- 
mentaire. ParRayNyst. 8vo, pp.441. London : David Nutt. 

A Crime on Canvas. By Fred M. White. With frontispiece 
in tint, 12mo, pp. 336. R. F. Fenno St Co. $1.60. 

Houses of Glass : Stories of Paris. By Helen Mackay. Illus., 
12mo, pp. 296. Duffield & Co. $1. net. 

TBAVFIi AND DBSCBIPTION. 

Behind the Veil in Persia and Turkish Arabia: An 
Account of an Englishwoman's Eight Years' Residence 
amongst the Women of the East. By M. E. Hume-Griffith ; 
with Narratives of Experiences in Both Countries by A. 
Hume-Griffith, M.D. Illus., 8vo, pp. 336. J. B. Lippincott 
Co. $3.50 net. 

Travels in the Far Fast. By Ellen M. H. Peck. Ulus., 8vo. 
pp.349. Milwaukee, Wis.: Mrs. James S. Peck. $3. net. 

Among the Wild Tribes of the Afghan Frontier : A Record 
of Sixteen Years' Close Intercourse with the Natives of the 
Indian Marches. By T. L. Pennell; with Introduction by 
Field-Marshall Earl Roberts. Illus., 8vo, pp. 824. J. B. 
Lippincott Co. $3.50 net. 

The Heart of Central Africa : Mineral Wealth and Mission- 
ary Opportunity. By John M. Springer; with Introduction 
by Bishop J. C. Hartzell. Illus., 12mo, pp. 223, Jennings & 
Graham. $1. net. 

BEIilGION AND THEOLOGY. 

The Christian Doctrine of God. By William Newton Clarke, 
D.D. 8vo, pp. 477. " International Theological Library." 
Charles Scribner's Sons. $2.50 net. 

Studies in Christianity. By Borden Parker.Bowne. 12mo, 
pp. 899. Houghton Mifflin Co. $1.50 net. 
(Continued on next page J 



F. M. HOIiLY 

Authors' and Publishers' Representative 

Circulars sent upon request. 156 Fifth Avenue, Nbw York. 

Authors Seeking a Publisher 

Should communicate with 
the Cochrane Publishing Co. 
450 Tribune Building, New 
York City 

TVPCWRITIMP • Dramatic, Literary. 4 cents per hundred words. 
I ircnnilino • References. M.S. Gopatkic, 156 Fifth Ave., N. Y. 

RARF ROOICS^ catalogues issued Regulahlt. 
**^^***-' *.»v-rv.^A-K»j . Next one eklates to Lincoln, 
Civil Wab, and Slavery. Sent Free. 

W. F. STOWE. 167 CUNTON AVE.. KINGSTON. N. Y. 



MANUSCRIPTS 
TYPEWRITTEN 



EXPERT SERVICE 

MODERATE FEES 
L. E. Swartz, 626 Newport, Chicago 



OUR ASSISTANCE 

IN THE FURCBASE OP BOOKS, ESPECIALY RARE OR SCARCE ONES, 

IS ALWAYS AVAILABLE, AND HAS HELPED MANY CAREFUL BUYERS. 

WE SEND OUR CATALOGUE ON REQUEST. 

THE TORCH PRESS BOOK SHOP. CEDAR RAPIDS. IOWA 

THE H. R. HUNTTING COMPANY 

SPRINGFIELD, MASS., 

issue catalogues of Standard Publications, Reference Books, 
Rare and Out-of-Print Books, and would be pleased to mail 
same in response to a postal card request. A prominent 
librarian said to us: "I find your catalogues the most inter- 
esting of any which come to me, and your priceis as a whole 
the most reasonable." 



C. J. PRICE 

1004 Walnut St., Philadelphia, Pa. 

IMPORTER OF CHOICE and RARE BOOKS 

FRENCH AND ENGLISH 

Invites the attention of Book-Lovers and those forming 
Fine Libraries to his collection of First and Choice Editions 
of Standard Authors, Americana, books illustrated by 
Cruikshank, Leech, and " Phiz," first editions of Dickens, 
Thackeray, Lever, Leigh Hunt, etc. Devoting his attention 
exclusively to the choicer class of books, and with experi- 
enced agents abroad, he is able to guarantee the prompt 
and efficient execution of all orders. 

Frequent catalogues of Select Importations are issued 
and sent gratis on demand. 



OUR LIBRARY SERVICE 

AX/E have recently supplemented our seryice to Libraries, by 
'' ^ procuring Out-of-Print and Scarce Books, and by importing 
English books. 

Our EDUCATIONAL CATALOGUE contains a full list 
of Supplementary Reading, indicating the grade to which each 
title is adapted. 

Our CLEARANCE CATALOGUE contains overstock at 
special prices, and an alphabetical arrangement by authors of all 
cheap editions of Recent Popular Fiction and Standard Library 
12mos in one list. 

Our LIBRARY CATALOGUE of 3500 approved titles, fol- 
lowing A. L. A. lines, is of great convenience to small libraries. 

Our MONTHLY BULLETIN notices promptly every new 
book of importance. 

These Catalogues are sent on request. Three notable features of 
our service are : promptness, thoroughness, and low prices. 

THE BAKER & TAYLOR CO. 

WHOLESALE DEALERS IN THE BOOKS OF ALL PUBLISHERS 

33 East Seventeenth Street, New York 



238 



THE DIAL 



[April 1, 



LIST OF NEW BOOKS — continued 
The Tests of Life : A Study of the First Epistle of St. John ; 

Being the Kerr Lectures for 1909. By Robert Law, B.D. 8vo, 

pp. 416. Charles Scribner's Sons. $3. net. 
Immortality. By E. E. Holmes. 12mo, pp. 320. "Oxford 

Library of Practical Theology." Longmans, Green, $ Co. 

$1.40 net. 
Vedanta in Practice. By Sw&mi Paramftnanda. With por- 
trait, 12mo. pp. 140. Baker & Taylor Co. $1. net. 
Cliristian Science in the Lierht of Holy Scripture. By 

I. M. Haldeman. 8to, pp. 441. Fleming H. Bevell Co. 

$1.50 net. 
Every-Day Evangelism. By Frederick De Land Leete, D.D. 

12mo, pp. 211. Jennings & Graham. $1. net. 
Helps toward Nobler Living ; or, " Unto the Hills." By 

Floyd W. Tomkins, LL.D. 16mo, pp.229. George W. Jacobs 

& Co. 50 cts. net. 

NATURE. 

Birds of the World: A Popular Account. By Frank H. 
Knowlton and Frederic A. Lucas ; edited by Robert Ridg- 
way. lUus. in color, etc.. 4to, pp. 873. "American Nature 
Series." Henry Holt & Co. $7. net. 

In American Fields and Forests. By Henry D. Thoreau, 
John Burroughs, John Muir, Bradford Torrey, Dallas Lore 
Sharp, and Olive Thome Miller. Illas. in photogravure, 
12mo, pp. 378. Houghton MiflQin Co. $1.50 net. 

Fish Stories Alleged and Experienced, with a Little History 
Natural and Unnatural. By Charles Frederick Holder and 
David Starr Jordan. Illus. in color, etc., 12mo, pp. 330. 
" American Nature Series." Henry Holt & Co. $1.75 net. 

ART. 
Florentine Sonlptors of the Renaissance. By Wilhelm 

Bode. Illus, in photogravure, etc., large 8vo, pp. 240. 

Charles Scribner's Sons. $4. net. 
Ghreat Hasters of Dutch and Flemish Fainting. By W. 

Bode; trans, by Margaret L. Clarke. Illus., 12mo, pp. 368. 

Charles Scribner's Sons. $2. net. 

BOOKS FOR THE TOUNQ. 
The Bob's Cave Boys: A Sequel to "The Boys of Bob's 

Hill." By Charles Pierce Burton. Illus., 12mo, pp. 302. 

Henry Holt & Co. $1.60. 
Happy School Days. By Margaret £ . Sangster. 12mo, pp. 271. 

Forbes & Co. $1.25. 
Uaking the Most of Ourselves : Talks for Young People — 

Second Series. By Calvin Dill Wilson. 12mo, pp. 297. 

A. C. McClurg & Co. $1. net. 
Witter Whitehead's Own Story. By Henry Gardner 

Hunting. Illus., 12mo, pp. 271. Henry Holt & Co. $1.26. 

EDUCATION. 

Modem Educators and Their Ideals. By Tadasu Misawa, 
Ph.D. 12mo, pp. 304. D. Appleton & Co. $1.25 net. 

English Granunar Schools in the Reign of dueen Eliza- 
beth. By A. Monroe Stowe. Large 8vo, pp. 200. "Teachers 
College Series No. 22." New York Teachers College. 
Columbia University. $1.60 net. 

Report of the Commissioner of Education for the Year 
Ended June 30, 1908. Vol. I.,8vo, pp. 382. Washington, D. C. : 
Government Printing Oflfice. 

Nineteenth Century English Prose : Critical Essays. Ed- 
ited, with Introductions and Notes, by Thomas H. Dickinson, 
Ph.D., and Frederick W. Roe, A.M. 12mo, pp. 496. Amer- 
ican Book Co. $l.net. 

Standard Songs and Choruses for High Schools. By M. F. 
MacConnell. Large 8vo, pp. 256. American Book Co. 76c. net. 

Spanish Anecdotes Arranged for Translation and Conversa- 
tion. By W. F. Giese and C. D. Cool. 16mo, pp. 146. D. C. 
Heath & Co. 60 cts. 

German Stories. Edited by George M. Baker, Ph.D. l6mo, 
pp. 228. Henry Holt & Co. 

MISCELLANEOUS, 
An Introduction to Social Psychology. By William Mc- 

Dougall, M.A. 12mo, pp.355. John W. Luce & Co. $1.50 net. 
Letters of a Japanese Schoolboy. By Wallace Irwin. Illus., 

12mo, pp. 370. Doubleday, Page & Co. $1.60. 
The Federal Civil Service as a Career : A Manual for 

Applicants for Positions and Those in the Civil Service of 

the Nation. By El Bie K. Foltz. 12mo, pp, 326. G. P. 

Putnam's Sons. $1.60 net. 



The Home Garden : A Book on Vegetable and Small-fruit 

Growing, for the Use of the Amateur Gardener. By Eben 

E. Rexford. Illus., 12mo, pp. 198. J. B. Lippincott Co. 

$1.25 net. 
A Dickens Dictionary : The Characters and Scenes of the 

Novels and Miscellaneous Works Alphabetically Arranged. 

By Alex. J. Philip. 8vo, pp. 404. E. P. Dutton & Co. $3. net. 
The Port O' Dreams, and Other Poems. By Edith Pratt 

Dickins. 16mo, pp. 128. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $1. net. 
Skat Made Easy : A Simple Exposition of the Fundamental 

Rules Governing the Game. By Agnes Henry. 16mo, pp. 75. 

George W. Jacobs & Co. 50 cts. net. 

THE NEW YORK BUREAU OF REVISION 

Established in 1880. LETTERS OF CRITICISM, EXPERT 
REVISION OF MSS. Advice as to publication. Address 
DR. TITUS M. COAN, 70 FIFTH AVE., NEW YORK CITY 

ROOIC^ ALL OUT- OP- PRINT BOOKS SUPPLIED, 
■-'^^^-' ix ^« QQ matter on what subject. Write ub. We can g^t 
you any book ever published. Please state wants. Catalogue f>ee. 
BAKER'S GREAT BOOK SHOP, 14-16 Bright St., Bibkinoham, Eno. 

HISTORIC HIGHWAYS 
OF AMERICA 

"A unique and charming series." — The Living Age. 

THE ARTHUR H. CLARK CO. 

CLEVELAND. OHIO 



FOR ANY BOOK ON EARTH write to H. H. TIMBY, 

Book Hunter. Catalogues free, let Nat Bank Bldg., Conneaut, O. 



Autograph 
Letters 



Of Celebrities Bought and Sold. 

Send for price lists. 

WALTER R. BENJAMIN, 

225 Fifth Ave., New York City. 

Pub. "THE COLLECTOR," |1 a year. 



RP I P f^ ^ r r^ O ^ ''*'* place your manu- 
C*ltV^ 1 Cl^ t script with leading pub- 
lisher. Many unsuccessful manuscripts simply need 
expert revision to make them immediately available. 
This 1 can give, securing results that count. Putnam's, 
Appletons, Scribners, Lippiucotts, etc., publish my 
own books. Editor, care The Dial. 



The Study-Guide Series 

FOR USE IN HIGH SCHOOLS: The Study of Four IdylU 
— college entrance requirements. The study of I vanhoe. Send for 
new descriptive circular and special price for class use. 
FOR USE IN COLLEGE CLASSES AND STUDY 
CLUBS: Studies of the Historical Plays of Shakespeare; The 
Study of Historical Fiction; The Study of Idylls of the King 
( arranged for critical study ) . New descriptive circular. 

Single copies, each, 50 cents. Send for new price list. 
Address H. A. Davidson, The Study-Guide Series, Cambridge, Mass. 



YOU CAN NOW BY USE OF THE 



P 



ERFECT 
AMPHLET 
RESERVER 



BIND 
THE DIAL 



at trifling cost. Holds one number or a 
volume, — looks like a book on the shelf. 
Simple in operation. Sent postpaid for 

25 CENTS 

THE DIAL COMPAl^, CHICAGO 



1909] THE DIAL 239 

Ready April 17th 

RECOLLECTIONS OF 
SEVENTY YEARS 

By F. B. SANBORN, of Concord 

This naturally takes its place as the most notable biographical work of many 
years. As the editor of The Springfield Republican, The Boston Common- 
wealth, and The Journal of Social Science, as the last of the founders of the 
famous Concord School of Philosophy, and as the friend, often the literary 
executor, of such men as Emerson, Thoreau, Alcott, and John Brown, Mr. 
Sanborn occupies a unique position and gives us in these reminiscences — 
probably the crowning achievement of a remarkable career — a wealth of 
hitherto unknown material. The work is divided into two volumes. Political 
and Literary, the chapter headings being : — 

VOLUME I. 

I., Preliminary. II., National Politics — 1 856-1 861. III., Kansas 
and Virginia. IV., Concord and North Elba. V., Virginia and 
Kansas. VI., Brown at the Kennedy Farm. VII., The Harper's 
Ferry Alarm. VIII., Personal Replevin. IX., Aftermath of the 
John Brown Foray. 

VOLUME II. 

X., Early Influences. XL, Initial Love. XII., Exeter and 
Cambridge. XIII., Concord and Some of Its Authors. XIV., 
Concord and its Other Authors. XV., Mrs. Ripley and Her 
Circle. XVI., The Jones, Dunbar, and Thoreau Families. 
XVII., Margaret Fuller and Her Friends. XVIII., Emerson in 
Ancestry and in Life. XIX., Concord, Past and Present. 
XX., Bronson Alcott and His Family. XXL, The Concord 
School of Philosophy. XXIL, Hawthorne and His Household. 
XXIIL, Theodore Parker and Emerson. XXIV., The Concord 
Lyceum, Dr. Channing and Others. 

The illustrations are of particular note as they are for the most part 
from hitherto unknown portraits and prints. Each volume contains a 
photogravure frontispiece. 

8vo in size, neatly boxed, bound in dark green buckram with gilt tops, it is in 
every way an example of beautiful book making. Price, $5.00 net. 

POET LORE has recently made arrangements with the publisher, Richard 
G. Badger, and is in a position to offer the work at a special price in con- 
nection with the magazine. 

POET LORE is published bi-monthly at $4.00 a year. 

We will send the magazine for one year and also send, express prepaid, one 
Recollections of Seventy Years to any reader of The Dial upon 
receipt of $6.00. 

THE POET LORE COMPANY PUBLISHERS 

194 BOYLSTON STREET BOSTON 



240 



THE DIAL. 



[April 1, 1909. 



Important Books on Psychical Research 



By JAMES H. HYSLOP, Ph.D., LL.D. 

Former Professor of Logic and Ethics 
at Columbia University, Vice-President 
of the English Society for Psychical 
Research, Founder and Secretary of 
the American Society for Psychical 
Research. 
Each volume, 12mo. tl.50 net, or, 
by mail, $1.62. 

Borderland of Psychical 
Research 

In this book are covered those points 
in normal and abnormal Psychology 
that are vital for the student of Psy- 
chical Research to know in order that 
he may judge the abnormal and the 
supernormal intelligently. The book 
contains chapters on Normal Sense- 
Perception, Interpreting and Associat- 
ing Functions of the Mind, Memory, 
Dissociation and Oblivescence, Illu- 
sions. Hallucinations, Pseudo-Spiritis- 
tic Phenomena, Subconscious Action 
and Secondary Personality, Mind and 
Body, Hypnotism and Therapeutics, 
Reincarnation, Reservations, and 
Morals. 

" It treats perplexing questions conserv- 
atively, and with a view to create an intelli- 
gent public interest in the baffling problem 
of psychical research. It is a book none 
should neglect who is attracted by the 
recondite mystery to whose solution it 
looks forward and attempts to clear the 
way." — The Outlook. 

Enigmas of Psychical Research 

An account of the scientific invest- 
igation and consideration of such 
well-established phenomena as crystal- 
gazing, telepathy, dreams, apparitions, 
premonitions, clairvoyance, medium- 
istic phenomena, etc. 

" Professor Hyslop, be it observed, does 
not write as one who has fully made up his 
mind, and ia determined to make others see 
with his eyes. On the contrary, he is care- 
ful to preserve an attitude of caution, the 
attitude, in short, of the trained investi- 
gator who feels that the end is not yet in 
sight. Perhaps this, more than anything 
else, is responsible for the praise his book 
has elicited." — Literary Digest. 

Science and a Future Life 

In this volume the author discusses 
the scientific investigation of psychic 
phenomena. 

" Professor Hyslop discusses the problem 
of life after death from data accumulated 
by the Society for Psychical Research. He 
considers the evidence scientifically, basing 
his argument upon experiments conducted 
by Sir Oliver Lodge, the late Professor 
Henry Sidgwick, Professor James, of Har- 
vard, the late Frederic W. H. Myers, and 
a number of others, including some valu- 
able experimental work of his own." 

— Review of Reviews. 

" His argument is like the charge of a 
judge to a jury, clear, definite, logical, 
leaving no doubtful point untouched, and 
no interrogation unanswered. Altogether 
the book is one of the most important in its 
particular branch of literature that has ever 
yet been given to the public. It should 
have a multitude of readers." 

— Boston Transcript. 



Psychical Research and 
the Resurrection 

This volume may be considered as a 
sequel to Professor Hyslop 's "Science 
and a Future Life," as it records the 
more important work that has been 
accomplislied since the death of Dr. 
Richard Hodgson, the late leader of 
psychical research in America. In its 
pages the author proceeds step by step 
to show the vital importance to human- 
ity that Science leave no stone unturned 
to strengthen the Christian faith. 

" It is cause for scientific rejoicing that 

Professor Hyslop has put forth this book." 

— Journal of Education. 

" The book is a deeply interesting one —an 
important contribution to a study which con- 
cerns humanity vitally." — Prov. Journal. 



By CAMILLE FLAMMARION 

Director of the Observatory at Juvisy. 

Larye 12»io, illustrated. $2.50 net, 
or, by mail, 12.70. 

Mysterious Psychic Forces 

A comprehensive review of the work 
done by European scientists of inter- 
national reputation in investigating 
psychical phenomena, written by a 
scientist of world-wide fame. The vol- 
ume includes the investigations of Sir 
William Crookes, Professor Richet, 
Professor Morselli, Professor Lom- 
broso. Count de Roches, Professor 
Porro, Professor AlfredRussell Wallace, 
Professor Thiory, Dr. Dariex. Victor 
Sardou, Aksakof, and many others. 

" Such a book, from such a writer, is 
more than interesting. It is timely. And 
the reader must admit, whatever his pre- 
judices or presuppositions, that, taking 
Professor Flammarion's book as an honest 
record of long and careful scientific study, 
which it is entitled to be considered, it 
amply sustains the author's conclusions." 
— Literartj Digest. 

" The book is one of the most interesting 
that have ever been written on the subject. 
Those who have the least liking for the sub- 
ject will find it entertaining beyond expec- 
tation." — Cleveland Plain Dealer. 



By ROBERT J. THOMPSON 

Proofs of Life After Death 

12mo. $1,50 net, or, by mail, $1.62. 
A collation of opinions as to a future 
life by such eminent scientific men and 
thinkers as N. S. Shaler, C. Richet, 
Camille Flammarion, Professor Bru- 
not, Sir William Crookes, Th. Flour- 
noy, Elmer Gates, William James, Dr, 
Paul Joire, Dr. Lombroso, Simon New- 
comb, Professor Hyslop, Dr. M. J. Sav- 
age Sir Oliver Lodge, Alfred Russell 
Wallace, Cardinal Gibbons, Andrew 
Lang, and many others. The book con- 
tains many arguments from a scientific 
standpoint that will interest all who 
wish evidence other than theological. 

" Seeking for comfort in a great sorrow, 
the author made a collection of opinions as 
to a future life by ssme of the world's most 
eminent scientific men and thinkers." 

— Chicago Record- Herald. 

"It should find a place on the shelf of 
every thinker." — Boston Transcript. 



By HEREWARD CARRINGTON 

Member of the Council of the Ameri- 
can Institute for Scientific Research, 
Member of the English Society for 
Psychical Research, etc. 
Large 12mo, illustrated. $2.00 net, 
or, by mail, $2.16. 

The Physical Phenomena 
of Spiritualism 

A book of incalculable value to psy- 
chical researchers. Every one knows 
that, while there is a residuum of the 
genuine, there is undoubtedly an im- 
mense amount of fraud perpetrated 
on credulous investigators of psychic 
phenomena. With rare skill and tact 
Mr. Carrington, who has had many 
years of experience, shows exactly how 
the tricks are done. His book is written 
wholly without prejudice, in a calm, 
courteous, judicial style, and the facts 
are presented with precision and order- 
liness. The latter part of the book is 
devoted to the consideration of what 
the author believes to be genuine phe- 
nomena. 

" He writes from the point of view of one 
who believes that such phenomena as come 
within the realms of spiritualism, popularly 
conceived, do occur, and on that account 
he is particularly anxious to expose the 
fraud connected with them, since it is only 
by so doing that the world can reach the 
genuine which Ues liehind." 

— Boston Transcrint. 

The Coming Science 

With an introduction by Jambs H. 

HVSLOP. 

12mo. $1.50 net, or, by mail, $1.62. 
This book fills a place in the literature 
of psychical research not covered by 
any other book that has thus far ap- 
peared. Its aim is threefold: (1) To 
form an introduction to the study of 
the subject, so that any one may feel 
familiar with the general problems and 
results without having previously read 
extensively upon it; (2) to approach 
the baffling questions from the stand- 
point of physical science, and point 
out exactly what the difficulties and 
objections are to the scientific man; 
(3) to summarize the various explana- 
tory theories that have been advanced 
from time to time to explain the facts 
of psychical research. 

" The great importance of the book lies 
in its pointing out that materialism must 
ultimately triumph, if no facts can be 
brought forward to prove it erroneous, and 
this would mean the destruction of the 
religious consciousness of the age. It is 
of prime importance, therefore, that the 
' average reader,' if there is such a thing, 
should be properly introduced to the prob- 
lems of ' the coming science.' " 

— Boston Transcript. 



A special pamphlet, fully describing these books, will be sent free to any address on application. 



Publishers 

of the 

Beacon 

Biographies 


SMALL, MAYNARD & COMPANY 

PUBLISHERS (iNcoEPOEATOD) BOSTON 


Publishers 

of the 

Beacon 

Biographies 



THE DIAL PRESS, FINE ARTS BCILDING, CHICAGO. 




DIAL 



Jl SEMI-MONTHLY JOURNAL OF 



Edited BY \Volume XLVI. r'TTTr'APrt A"PT?TT 1R 1 QHQ io c<». o copv-/ ^in» Abts Building 

018 F. BROWNE / iNTo. 54S. V^ni\>^AVjrU, AJTXiiXj ID, X»Ut7. |2. o vcar. I 203 Michi«:an Blvd. 



FRANCIS 



IMPORTANT BOOKS OF THE SPRING 



SIENA : The Story of a Mediaeval Commune 

By FERDINAND SCHEVILL, Professor of History, Chicago University. 
Illustrated. $2.60 net. Postpaid $2.76. 
A fascinating and comprehensive account of the history and art of one of the most interesting cities in the 
world. 

" The book will give the general reader a more intimate knowledge of Siena than he would probably 
gain from a library of historical treatises. ... It will also give him something of the distinctive personality 
of the place, of the charm and diffused fragrance of the local spirit of truth and beauty." — Boston Herald. 



ENGLAND AND THE ENGLISH 

From an American Point of View 

By PRICE COLLIER 
$1.60 net. Postpaid $1.60. 
Of one of the chapters which recently appeared in 
Scribner's Magazine, an English reviewer wrote : " We 
take off oar hats to this writer and congratulate him on 
his powers of observation and his faculty for dissecting 
character." — Manchester Weekly Times. 



EGOISTS: A book of Supermen 

By JAMES HUNEKER 
$1.60 net. Postpaid $1.60. 

" His concern is to make the picture very vivid in a way 
of his own and leave it at that. And how brilliantly, 
how sympathetically, with what insight and spirit and 
wit he paints it ! " — New York Tribune. 



SOCIAL ORGANIZATION: A Study of the Larger Mind 

By CHARLES HORTON COOLEY, Professor of Sociology, University of Michigan. 
$1.60 net. Postpaid $1.60. 
A remarkably elaborate and systematic exposition of the social relations as distinguished from the individual 
constitution of man, and of their effect on his conduct and activities, moral and material. 



t^Qgtrg 



ARTEMIS AND ACTAEON 

And Other Verse 

By EDITH WHARTON 

$1.00 net. Postpaid $1.10. 

Mrs. Wharton's first volume of Collected Poems. They 

are remarkable for their power and beauty of expression. 



SHELLEY 

By FRANCIS THOMPSON 

$1.00 net. Postpaid $1.10. 

A fascinating and astonishing study of one great poet 
by another. A masterpiece of critical interpretation. 



CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS, 153 FIFTH A VENUE, NEW YORK 



242 THE DIAXi [April 16, 



New Books of Standard Interest 

Not only are these works authoritative in their treatment of important 
questions and illuminating in their treatment of the arts, but in appearance, 
format, and illustrations they are among the notable books of the season. 



LETTERS FROM CHINA: With Particular Reference to the Empress Dowager 
and the Women of China. By Sarah Pike Conger. 

Mrs. Conger lived in China from 1898 to 1904 at the wife of the American minister. After passing through the 
siege of the Legations, she was instrumental in bringing about good feeling between the Empress Dowager and the Allied 
Powers. These letters throw a unique light on conditions then and now in the Chinese Empire. They are profusely 
illustrated from Mrs. Conger's own photographs, which include those of the late Empress Dowager and her retinue, 
published by special permission. 

Profusely illustrated. Index. Crown 8vo, red cloth, stamped in white, cold, and creen. 

$2.75 net. By mail, $2.95. Ready in April. 

THE ANDEAN LAND By Chase S. Osborn. 

Mr. Osborn's work is not only a vivid travel story, told with a wealth of anecdote, but is a serious effort to depict 
the recent progress of South America which so far has outstripped altogether the historian. The American exporter will 
find here some trenchant criticisms of his usual methods in handling South American trade. The man who wishes to 
cover the ground himself will find the work a complete guide to the lands of our Southern neighbors. 

Two volumes, with over 50 illustrations and 4 maps. Indexed. Larce 8vo. 
$5.00 net. By mail, $5.32. Heady in Api-il. 

A SUMMER IN TOURAINE By Frederic Lees. 

The banks of the Loire, Vienne, and Cher are here described as they appear to a leisurely an<. cultured traveller 
who sees, as he passes along the river banks, and wanders through the old chateaux, not the pageant of a summer only, 
but the whole pageant of the Renaissance in France. Mr. Lees, however, gives definite information for the present day 
traveller, who wishes to see the most of Touraine, as well as historic insight for the fireside traveller, who will find 
every notable chateau represented in Mr. Lees's pictures of historic houses and rooms. 

With 12 plates in full color, and many other full-pace illustrations, and a map. Larce 8vo. 

$2.75 net. By mail. $2.92. 

THE EMPIRE OF THE EAST: Japan As It Was, Is, and Will Be. 

By H. B. Montgomery. 

Mr. Montgomery takes Japan seriously and consistently endeavors to get beneath the bizarre surface appearances, 
and at the real Japan. He presents, therefore, a comprehensive picture of a nation intensely utilitarian even in its art, 
bending all its energies toward national progress. His chapters on Japanese art are unusually explicit. The illustrations 
are from Japanese masters. 

With frontispiece in color and other illustrations. Index. Large Svo. $2.50 net. By mail, $2.64. 

THE SUMMER GARDEN OF PLEASURE By Mrs. Stephen Batson, 

author of "A Concise Handbook of Garden Flowers." 

That one's garden may bloom from early to late summer with no flowerless interregnum is the ideal that Mrs. Batson 
sets forth with Mr. Osmund Pittman's admirable illustrations in color. After a chapter on the Wild Garden, at once 
the most fascinating and least exacting of all gardens, Mrs. Batson treats the flowers in detail and prepares the reader 
for the perils and pleasures of the seasons. In literature, gardens have ever sought the permanence denied by nature, and 
Pliny, Tacitus, Bacon, and many lesser, lights contribute to the literary value of this volume. 

With 36 illustrations in color by Osmund PiUman. Index. Large Svo. $3.50 net. By mail. $3.66. 

ART OF SPEECH AND DEPORTMENT By Anna Morgan. 
SELECTED READINGS Compiled by Anna Morgan. 

A pioneer producer of the higher order of drama. Miss Morgan speaks with authority in all that pertains to inter- 
pretation. In this work she gives detailed treatment to the elements that go to make the finished and powerful speaker 
in the drawing-room or before an audience. A notable part of the work is that dealing with the drama, and Miss Morgan's 
own experiences as a producer are given in an appendix. 

From Tolstoi to O. Henry and from Boccaccio to Edward Everett Hale, the field of literature pays tribute to this 
volume. Many of the selections are published for the first time apart from their author's works and only by special 
permission. The dramatic section includes Shaw and Stephen Phillips, as well as the older dramatists. 

Two volumes. 12mo, each $1.50 net. By mail, each, $1.64. Headv in April. 

A. C. McCLURG & CO. PUBLISHERS CHICAGO 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



243 



Ig iiark ©main 

THIS new volume is quick with keen, poignant 
humor, pierced with vigilant wit — one that in 
the guise of fun carries a message of real importance. 
It is a valuable contribution to the literature of the 
subject- — and it is written with all the discerning 
analysis of Mark Twain at his best and funniest. 

Crown 8vo, Cloth. Gilt Top. Rough Edges. $1.2^ net. 



A ^'^^ovei^oy^^,^^^^ nancy Stair 

j^atrine 

DY ELINOR MACARTNEY LANE. In "Katrine" 
a new heroine has come into her own , the most 
beautiful and compelling figure that the author has 
given us. The romance opens amid historic surround- 
ings in North Carolina, where Francis Ravenel meets 
Katrine, and idyllic scenes pass before the reader 
among the roses of the South. The action changes to 
Paris and an atmosphere of art and intrigue, and again 
to New York. It is a great romance, but most of 
all the romance of a woman's all-conquering love. 

With Frontispiece. Post Svo. Cloth. $1.50. 



DY NORAH DAVIS. An unconventional novel 
— father and son in love with the same woman ; but 
the story is sincerely free from all questionable incident 
or suggestion, and is, besides, dramatic, well-analyzed, 
and exciting in its development. It taltes its color mainly 
from the personality of an exquisite, alluring woman, 
who by the world's test is something worse than a 
coquette, and as a matter of fact is only a lovely and 
very feminine woman. Post Svo, Cloth, $1.50. 



Like another " Eben H olden," only better — the author's best. 

DY IRVING BACHELLER. This new novel fol- 
lows Mr. Bacheller's favorite style, treating of 
rural types and abounding in local dialect, grim wit, 
and good-natured humor — better than anything he 
has done before. "The Hand-Made Gentleman" 
conceives a plan for combining railway lines, which 
he submits to Commodore Vanderbilt, and, his idea 
being approved, he has an interview with "a man 
of the name of Andrew Carnegie." The story, 
indeed, forms a romance of the wonderful industrial 
development of the past half-century in New York. 
And there is a wonderfully beautiful love story. 
Price, $1.50. 



P Y LOUISE CLOSSER HALE. It is different— from 
the very heart of actor life. It stands alone in re- 
vealing tlie true — not the scandal — stagedom through 
this charming girl, her associates, and the man she loves. 
He's a prosperous, level-headed business man, and natu- 
rally hasn't much sympathy with her "career" — But 
the actress tells her heart-story better than any one 
else can. Illustrated. Post Svo, Cloth, $1.50. 




ollj^ f kttt^r 



Ig ijerman Mlittakrr 



AYOITNG man from Maine, where the Commandments still hold, finds himself in the 
tropics. Here all his harder virtues are set upon by the hot winds that blow, by quick 
gusts of passion, by emotions all new and overpowering. Here even the " lascivious stars" 
are against him. It is the story of a naked soul struggling in the toil of compelling emotion — 
with all the impulses towards soft wrong-doing dragging at him. Post Svo, Cloth, $U0. 



244 



THE DIAL 



[AprU 16, 




The Garden of Girls 

By MARIAN A. HILTON 

IF you know a girl who has onterrown juvenile 
books but is not yet ready for the modem 
novel — this is HER BOOK. 

C It tells the story of two high-bred grirls who come to 
New York to make their way. Their home-making in a 
model tenement, their girl friends, their chicken ranch, 
their sorrows and griefs, their rise to fortune, their 
innocent romances — all this is told with a humor, 
vivacity, and understanding of young life that will hold 
the interested attention of a girl reader from the first to 
the last page. 

C Its unobtrusive teaching of all that is Finest 

and Best in Girl Life and Womanhood cannot 

fail to influence every Qirl who reads it. 

Ask Your Bookseller. 

Fully illuttrated. 360 pp. Hmo. Cloth. $1.50. 

THE TANDY-THOMAS CO., 

New York: 31-33 East Twenty-seventh Steeet. 



OF INTEREST 
to LIBRARIANS 



T T /"E are now handling a larger per- 
' ' centage of orders from Public 
Libraries, School and College 
Libraries, than any other dealer in 
the entire country. This is because 
our book stock, covering all classes 
and grades of books, is more com- 
plete than that of any other book- 
seller in the United States, enabling 
us to make full and prompt ship- 
ments. Also, because we have a well 
equipped department looking after 
this special branch of the business. 

A. C. McCLURG & CO. 



UBRARY DEPARTMENT 



CHICAGO 



Credo 

A remarkable statement of belief, — the work of 
one individual, although submitted to and approved 
by many leading religious thinkers. 

The New Righteousness 

By Professor Vida Scudder of Wellesley College. 
Being the second part of " The Social Conscience 
of the Future," keen articles on Socialism begun in 
the January issue. 

The Message of Gilbert K. Chesterton 

By John A. Hutton, of Glasgow. 

The reasons for Chesterton's belief in God " with 
heartibess and uproariousness," and his condemna- 
tion of all the " isms." 

Islam, the Religion of Common Sense 

By " Ibn Ishak, a Muslim graduate of the Anglo- 
Muhammadan College. 

Showing the sane and reasonable grounds of belief 
of this ancient Oriental religion. 

The Message of Modern Mathematics 
to Theology 

By Professor C. J. Ketseb, of Columbia University. 
In which he shows that the doctrine that each of 
the three Persons of the Trinity is equal to the One 
composed by all, is rigorously thinkable and mathe- 
matically demonstrable. 

FOR THE ABOVE AND EQUALLY 
STRIKING ARTICLES, SEE 

THE APRIL 

HIBBERT JOURNAL 

A QUARTERLY REVIEW OF RELIGION, 

THEOLOGY, AND PHILOSOPHY 

An Unusual Number of 

An Unusual Periodical 

75 cents per copy $2.50 per annum 

Subscriptions can beg^n with any issue, but the January 

number, an exceedingly strong one, ought not t» be 

overlooked by new subscribers. Published by 

SHERMAN, FRENCH & CO. 

6 Beacon Street Boston, Massachusetts 



OUR LIBRARY SERVICE 

WE have recently aupplemented our service to Lihraries. by 
procuring Out-of-Print and Scarce Books, and by importing 
English books. 

Our EDUCATIONAL CATALOGUE contains a full list 
of Supplementary Reading, indicating the grade to which each 
title is adapted. 

Our CLEARANCE CATALOGUE contains overstock at 
special prices, and an alphal>eti<»l arrangement by authors of all 
cheap editions of Recent Popular Fiction and Standard Library 
12mo8 in one list. 

Our LIBRARY CATALOGU E of 3o00 approved titles, fol- 
lowing A. lb A. lines, is of great convenience to small libraries. 

Our MONTHLY BULLETIN notices promptly every new 
book of importance. 
These Catalogues are sent on request. Three notable features of 

our service are : promptness, thoroughness, and low prices. 

THE BAKER & TAYLOR CO. 

WHOLESALE DEALERS IN THE BOOKS OF ALL PUBLISHEK3 

33 East SeTenteenth Street, New York 



1909] THE DIAL 245 



READY APRIL 15 

The strongest depiction of character pubHshed this year 

The Seven Who Were Hanged 

By LEONID ANDREYEV 

Translated from the Russian by Herman Bernstein 

This story, which is considered by Russian and European critics the best that has appeared from 
the pen of the " successor of Tolstoy," is the first story of any length by Andreyev translated into 
English. 

It created a literary and political sensation upon its publication in Russia last year. And it has 
been translated into several languages, and in Germany is at present attracting much attention both for 
its powerful theme and its artistic worth. 

" The Seven Who Were Hanged " tells seven stories of persons who have been condemned to death, 
two of them women revolutionists. It is a powerful study of these seven distinct, and as Andreyev has 
drawn them, wonderfully contrasted types. 

12mo. Frontispiece of the author. Cloth. $1.00. 

In continuation of the new departure made by us of publishing new books at a popular price, we 
desire to announce the addition to our line, of 

A Gentleman From Mississippi 

founded upon the successful and popular play of the same name, the 200th successive performance of 
which in New York has just been given. 

The story is a truthful picture of government at Washington; a shameful but accurate picture of 
Senatorial dishonesty and American business methods injected into politics. 

" Amusing, full of laughter and sentiment from beginmng to end, but above all instructive." — New 
York Evening Journal. 

We predict as large a sale for this book as that of " The New Mayor," founded on Broadhurst's 
" Man of the Hour." 
12mo. Cloth. 8 full-page illustrations from the Flay- 50 cents net. Postage ten cents additional. 

We desire to announce the addition of four other titles to our line of popular cloth copyrights, 
making eight titles as follows: 

*THE NEW MAYOR . . . Founded on'thePlay "The Man of the Hour" 

*THE DEVIL Ferenc Molnar 

THE HOUSE BY THE RIVER Florence Warden 

*A GENTLEMAN FROM MISSISSIPPI Founded on the Play 

THE KREUTZER SONATA AND OTHER STORIES. (140th Thou- 

sand ; New edition from new plates) Count Tolstoy 

*WAY DOWN EAST (Over 260,000 copies of the story have been 

sold) Joseph R. Grismer 

THE PEER AND THE WOMAN E. Phillips Oppenheim 

A MONK OF CRUTA E. Phillips Oppenheim 

* Books marked with an asterisk are 50 cents net, retail, the others, 75 cents. Liberal discount 
to the trade. 

The above books are all issued in attractive cloth binding with new and separate cover design on 
each. Most of them are fully illustrated. 

The new books announced and the additions to the popular copyright line will be ready April 15. 
Advance orders solicited. 



J. S. OGILVIE PUBLISHING COMPANY, 57 ROSE ST., NEW YORK 



246 



THE DIAL. 



[April 16, 1909. 



NOW READY 



COMPLETE IN FOUR VOLUMES 



DR. BAILEY'S Great 

Cyclopedia of American Agriculture 

Edited, with the assistance of over 300 Agricultural Experts, by 
L. H. BAILEY, Director of the College of Agriculture, Cornell 
University, and Chairman of the Commission on Country Life. 

In four quarto volumes, with 100 full-page plates, and about 2,000 other illustrations. 

It tells both what to do on the farm, and how to do it 

This is the book of reference for the country place. It will save its cost many 
times over on every country estate. It is indispensable for reference on any 
subject connected with the farm or the outdoor affairs of a country home. 



CONTENTS 

VoiiCME I. — FARMS — A general survey of all the 
a^icultural regions of the United States — Advice 
as to the Projecting of a Farm — The Soil — The 
Atmosphere. 

Volume II. — FARM CROPS — The Plant and Its 
Relations — The Manufacture of Crop Products — 
North American Field Crops. 

Volume III.— FARM ANIMALS— The Animal and 
Its Relations — Manufacture of Animal Products — 
North American Farm Animals. 

Volume IV.— SOCIAL ECONOMY IN THE COUN- 
TRY — Just ready. Perhaps the most important 
volume of all. It contains discussions on all phases 
of country life : — Education, farm accounting, the 
costs of production, profitable handling and sale of 
perishable food crops, etc. 



POINTS TO BE NOTED 
Any man who wants a country home can get 

from it the best advice on buying land, on the lay- 
out of a farm or country place, the best way of 
planning operations, and the capital required for 
purchase, equipment, and operation. 

Any man who has a country home can, by com- 
paring his experience with the detailed information 
in this work, find out whether he is getting the 
best possible returns for his work and where to 
make improvements if needed. 

Any man who has to attend to the construction of 
farm buildings, drainage, tillage, the growing or 
marketing of any crops, the care of any kind of farm 
stock, the manufacture of any agricultural product 
whatever, will find this work indispensable. 



Send for a full prospectus, with names of contributors, outline of contents, etc. 
In four quarto volumes, fidly illustrated, cloth, $20.00 net ; halfmor., $32.00. 



THE LATEST NEW MACMILLAN BOOKS 



Kate V. Saint Maur's new hook 
The Earth's Bounty 

By the author of " A Self-Supporting Home." In 
the same attractive, clear, absolutely practical way, 
she deals with the wider problems of the country 
home. Cloth, illus., $1.75 net; by 'mail, $1.90. 

A good companion to this issued last year. 

Allen French's 

Handbook and Planting-Table 
of Vegetables and Garden Herbs 

A book which should be on the book-shelf in every 
home where there is a grarden. 

Cloth, $1.75 net; by mail, $1.89. 



Frank Danby's new novel 
Sebastian 

Wherever a father's ideals conflict with a mother's 
hopes for the son of their dreams you meet the cur- 
rents underlying the plot of the new novel by the 
author of " The Heart of a Child." Cloth, $1.50. 

Rina Ramsay's The Straw 

An unusually good story, in the outdoor atmosphere 
of a gay " hunting set." Cloth, $1.50. 

Eden Phillpotts's 
The Three Brothers 

Distinctly a masterpiece — the best of his Dartmoor 
books. Cloth. $1.50. 



PUBLISHED 
BY 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 



64-66 Fifth Ave., 
NEW YORK 



THE DIAL 

a &tmi'Montij\-g 3oumaI 0! ILitcrarg Criticism, ©iscuggtcn, anti InforTnatfon. 



TffB DIAL (founded in 1880) is published on the 1st and 16th oj 
each month. Tkbms or Subscbiption, 82. a year in advance, postage 
prepaid in the United States, and Mexico; Foreign and Canadian 
postage 60 cents per year extra. Rkjitttances should be by check, or 
by express or postal order, payable to THE DIAL COMPANY. 
Unless otherwise ordered, subscriptions will begin with the current 
number. When no direct request to discontinue at expiration of sub- 
scription is received, it is assumed that a continuance of the subscription 
is desired. AovEBTisiNa Rates furnished on application. All com- 
munications should be addressed to 

THE DIAL, Fine Arts Building, Chicago. 

Entered as Second-Class Dilatter October 8, 1892, at the Post Office 
at Chicago, Illinois, under Act of March 3, 1879. 



No. 648. 



APRIL 16, 1909. 



Vol. XLVI. 



Contents. 

PAGB 

HOME RULE AND PUBLIC EDUCATION . . 247 

CASUAL COMMENT 249 

The disparagement of current literature. — French 
literary criticism. — A county's growth in the love 
of literature. — The literature of the linotype. — 
Menander on a modern stage. — The activity of the 
Atlanta library. — Honor among public library 
patrons. — A youthfully active veteran of letters. — 
A rubbish-heap of reading matter. — The acumen of 
an English critic. — A strenuous librarian. — George 
Herbert as the originator of Fletcherism. 

COMMUNICATIONS 252 

Copyright and the Importation Privilege. Geo. 

Haven Putnam. 
The Cost of Circulating a Library Book. O. B. 
Howard Thomson. 

CHINESE WOMEN AND CHINESE WAYS. Percy 

F. Bicknell 254 

THE RIGHT ARM OF THE CONFEDERACY. 

James M. Garnett 255 

THE .ESTHETIC VALUE OF ASIAN ART. 

Frederick W. Gookin 257 

THE MAID OF FRANCE. Laurence M. Larson . 260 

RECENT FICTION. William Morton Payne . . .262 
Wells's Tono-Bungay. — Locke's Septimus. — Con- 
rad's The Point of Honor. — Kinross's Joan of 
Garioch. — Thurston's Mirage. — Bindloss's Lorimer 
of the Northwest. — Phillips's The Fashionable 
Adventures of Joshua Craig. — Hough's 54-40 or 
Fight. — Lynde's The King of Arcadia. — Orcutt's 
The SpeU. 

BRIEFS ON NEW BOOKS 265 

Colleges as education factories. — Napoleon's Aus- 
trian campaigns. — The pleasures and pains of the 
toiling millions. — Beginnings of the greatest city in 
the world. — A notable contribution to biology. — 
John Pettie, Scotch painter. — Dualism in religion 
and philosophy. — Some colonial characters in life- 
like attitudes. 

NOTES 268 

LIST OF NEW BOOKS 269 



HOME R ULE AN D PUB LIC ED UCA TION. 

From the time when the General Court of the 
Massachusetts Bay Colony ordered that a com- 
mon school should be established in every town of 
fifty householders, at the expense of those house- 
holders, and fixed a penalty for non-compliance 
with this law, it has been the recognized duty 
of the State to see that the means of education 
are provided for its youthful citizens, and to 
make it impossible for any miserly or short- 
sighted local community to withhold the needed 
financial support. No principle is more firmly 
fixed in our practice than this, and none is 
more fundamental to our existence as a Federal 
Union of free democratic commonwealths. The 
advancing years have witnessed an extension of 
this principle undreamed of by the pioneers who 
first gave it a legal phrasing, but the embryo 
of all that we have grown into educationally 
is found in the Massachusetts law above men- 
tioned. Education is the function of the State, 
not of the county or town, because it is a matter 
too essential to the common welfare to be left 
to the caprice of the locality. The small com- 
munity may cut its coat according to its cloth 
in such matters of local concern as police and 
fire protection, road-making and street-paving, 
drainage and sanitation, because the neglect of 
these things has consequences which, however 
disastrous, are confined to a limited area ; but a 
failure to provide suitable public education has 
effects so far-reaching that the State is bound to 
interpose, and to assert its paramount interest 
in the training of its future citizens. 

This principle once granted (and we all grant 
it in the abstract), questions of the degree 
and kind of education become questions of the 
merest detail. Whatever system of public edu- 
cation the consensus of State opinion determines 
upon must be accepted, and in good faith pro- 
vided for, by the local political units of which 
the State consists. If it range from the lowest 
elementary teaching to the highest university 
training, no section has a right to refuse its 
share of the burden. We used to hear much 
of the foolish argument that the local commu- 
nity, while bound to provide common schools, 
might or might not provide high schools at its 
own pleasure, as if this decision involved some 
fundamental principle, instead of being a minor 
aspect of the general question of State policy. 



248 



THE DIAL 



[AprU 16, 



We hear little of that contention of late years, 
because it is too logically evident that manda- 
tory support of common schools and of a State 
university makes provision for the intermediate 
period of education equally mandatory. But we 
still have many examples of local communities 
which, from motives of economy, sheltering 
themselves under the specious demand for home 
rule in educational affairs, seek to evade their 
fuU educational obligations. The principle of 
home rule is a sound one in all matters that 
concern local interests alone ; in its relation to 
education, its legitimate sphere is strictly admin- 
istrative, and it must not be permitted to hamper 
the declared policy of the commonwealth. 

These considerations need particularly to be 
urged at the present time, because in the two 
largest cities of the country there are now in 
progress powerfully supported movements to 
make a most injurious application of the prin- 
ciple of home rule to school affairs. In both 
New York and Chicago, the attempt is being 
made to withdraw from the city schools the 
fimdamental safeguards which the State has 
wisely established for the protection of public 
education against the ignorance or caprice of 
local politicians. In each case, the attempt is 
concealed in a plan for a new city charter, and 
is likely to escape the attention it should receive 
from the public because of the multiplicity of 
other matters with which it is associated. An 
issue of the first importance is thus in danger 
of being so befogged that serious mischief may 
be done before the public becomes aware that 
mischief is designed. 

The situation in New York City may be 
briefly outlined. About ten years ago, a benefi- 
cent piece of legislation, known as the Davis 
law, was enacted at Albany. Its provisions 
assured the teachers of the metropolis, for the 
first time in their history, of adequate compen- 
sation, secure tenure, and suitable allowances 
after retirement. It transformed as by magic 
the whole educational situation, gave stability 
to the teaching profession, improved its morale^ 
and inaugurated a new era of efficiency. The 
unspeakable demoralization of the former sys- 
tem of local control was done away with ; the 
unrest of the past became an old, unhappy, far- 
off thing, and the members of the teaching force, 
no longer compelled to intrigue for retention 
or deserved promotion, no longer uncertain of 
what the coming year might bring forth for them 
out of the witch's cauldron of Tammany politics, 
were free to devote themselves to the legitimate 
duties of their profession. The wisdom of the 



Davis law has been so abundantly justified by its 
effects that it would seem as if no rational person 
could desire its abrogation ; yet at the present 
time a Charter Commission is doing its best to 
secure repeal, and to restore to the Board of 
Estimate its former power to determine from year 
to year, as the exigencies of local politics may 
dictate, the conditions of the teacher's existence 
in the public schools of the city of New York. 

The present situation in Chicago is essentially 
the same, although the State safeguards, which 
it is now sought to remove, are of a widely dif- 
ferent nature. In Illinois, these safeguards 
take the form, not of guaranteed minimum rates 
of compensation for individuals, but of a guar- 
anteed minimum of the total appropriation for 
the purposes of the Chicago schools. Under the 
existing law, which is of many years' standing, 
a fixed percentage of the tax levy must be applied 
to educational purposes. The amount realized 
may go up or down with the annual assessment 
of taxable property, but the share is secured by 
law, and no part of it may be diverted to any 
other use. Without going into the details of a 
very complicated matter, we may say — and it is 
sufficient for our present purpose of making the 
situation clear — that the city Board of Educa- 
tion has a right, for current educational expenses 
(exclusive of the erection of school buildings) to 
five dollars for every four dollars that may be 
applied to the other purposes of city government 
from the annual tax levy. In order that this 
ratio may be properly understood, we must add 
that the city gets, from licenses and other sources 
outside the tax levy, approximately four dollars 
more in which the schools have no share. It 
may enlarge its special revenues indefinitely by 
various forms of indirect taxation, but it cannot 
intrench upon the educational fund. As a matter 
of form, the City Council makes the educational 
appropriation, which may be reduced if it wish, 
but since it cannot itself benefit by such a reduc- 
tion, and since the full amount authorized by 
law is inadequate for the needs of the schools, 
this power of reduction is never exercised. 

Two years ago a new city charter was adopted 
by the Illinois Legislature, but overwhelmingly 
rejected by a referendum vote. This charter 
gave the City Council full control over the appor- 
tionment of funds, and placed the Board of Edu- 
cation completely at its mercy. This, pro vision 
was one of the chief reasons for the defeat of 
the proposed instrument of municipal govern- 
ment, and yet, with amazing fatuity, a charter 
embodying the same vicious principle is now 
again submitted to the Legislature and will very 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



249 



likely again come before the voters. However 
great its merits in other respects, such a charter 
must be resolutely opposed by all the friends of 
public education. To put the schools at the 
mercy of the City Council, to remove from them 
the existing legislative safeguards respecting 
their share of the tax levy, would be to deal 
them the severest blow conceivable. No col- 
lateral benefits to other departments of the city 
government could outweigh or offset this evil. 
There can be no doubt whatever as to how the 
plan would work. The demands of the city 
government are insatiable, and the pressure 
exerted to enlarge the police force or the fire 
department, to increase the appropriations for 
the cleaning and the paving of streets, all of 
which things, and others, might so easily be 
done at the expense of the schools, would prove 
irresistible. Every year would witness a relative 
shrinking of the school fund, and a consequent 
retardation of educational development. There 
has not been a single year of the last twenty in 
which the Council would not have done this very 
thing had it possessed the legal power, in which 
it has not cast longing eyes at the school revenue 
lying so temptingly just beyond its reach. To 
give it, as the proposed charter contemplates, 
this long-coveted power would be the extreme 
of unwisdom. 

We think it necessary to sound this note of 
alarm because the matter has been intentionally 
obscured by the sponsors of the pending charter 
legislation. They say a great deal about the 
importance of a unified administrative system 
and the consolidation of our local governments, 
and carefully refrain from explaining how radi- 
cally their plan would affect the public schools. 
When the point is pressed upon them, they talk 
airily of increased revenues in which all depart- 
ments would share, and affect injured surprise 
at the suggestion that the schools might not be 
generously dealt with. But the bird which our 
city education now has in the hand is worth sev- 
eral of the elusive songsters that maybe imagined 
to lurk in the bush of the proposed charter. 
Whatever happens, the friends of our school 
system must insist upon retaining the present 
provision of a fixed fraction for school purposes, 
or, if this be not granted them, must reject, 
regretfully but firmly, the entire measure which 
would otherwise prove their undoing. We have 
no fear of the outcome if this vital matter can 
be brought squarely before the public eye, but 
we confess to no little fear lest the case go against 
the schools by default of that alert interest in 
their welfare which is now so imperatively needed. 



CASUAL COMMENT. 



The disparagement of current literature, 
as compared with the literature of a more fortunate 
earlier time, seems to be as inevitable as teething 
in children or rheumatism in old age. In looking 
back at the early and middle Victorian era, when 
Tennyson and Browning were beginning to be 
known, and many lesser lights spangled the literary 
firmament, we are not wont to consider it an age 
devoid of illumination. And yet, opening " Jane 
Eyre," which appeared in the autumn of 1847, we 
find in the thirty-second chapter an almost tearfully 
regretful mention of the good old times. St. John 
Rivers had just brought Jane a copy of "Marmion" 
— "one of those genuine productions so often vouch- 
safed to the fortunate public of those days — the 
golden age of modern literature," comments the 
writer, and then continues : " Alas ! the readers of 
our era are less favoured. But courage ! I will not 
pause either to accuse or repine. I know poetry is 
not dead, nor genius lost ; nor has Mammon gained 
power over either, to bind or slay : they will both 
assert their existence, their presence, their liberty 
and strength again one day." Curious indeed is it 
to observe how the same old mental attitudes, — 
despair of the present, backward glances of mourn- 
ful regret at the past, and (though less invariably) 
hope of better things to come, — are assumed by one 
generation after another, with a naive unconscious- 
ness that there is nothing novel and nothing excep- 
tional in the situation. But of such old stories ever 
new is human experience composed. * 
• • • 

French literary criticism has long been re- 
garded by other nations as a model in its kind. Of 
more than local interest, therefore, is the series of 
four public lectures delivered in Cambridge, in con- 
nection with his longer course to students, by Pro- 
fessor Abel Lefranc, this year's Hyde lecturer at 
Harvard. In his opening address he touched upon 
the three chief features of what he called the new 
or historical method in literary criticism. First, it 
seeks to reconstruct the circumstances in which a 
work of literature was produced ; second, it studies 
sources and takes note of imitations ; and " the third 
feature of the historical method is the search for real 
personal elements in the great writers. All works 
have been questioned as to their authors, and very 
few of the works have been mute. Whether it be 
d'Urf^, or Montaigne, or Rabelais, or Villon, or 
Ronsard, or Boileau, or the Abb^ Provost, some por- 
tion of the heart and soul has found a lodgement in 
the work. This questioning of the works for confi- 
dences, for indiscretions, it may be, about their 
authors, is only an expression of a taste and a pas- 
sion for truth. . . . We are tending to isolate lit- 
erature less and less from life and reality; as we 
connect them closer, and as we study literature more 
intelligently from this viewpoint, our literature grows 
in greatness in our eyes." This " third feature " 



250 



THE DIAL 



[April 16, 



might well have heen treated as first and foremost. 
If we take from the works of an author that which 
is distinctive and personal, how little of human 
interest and real importance remains ! 
• • • 
A county's growth in the love of literature 
is remarkably illustrated by the literary awakening 
that has taken place within the last three years in 
Multnomah County, Oregon. The Portland Library 
Association (or public library, as it might better style 
itself) prints in its forty-fifth annual report some 
figures that reveal a hopeful state of affairs in that 
far-off corner of our great Northwest. The Asso- 
ciation, supported by city and county alike, supplies 
reading matter to the farmer and the merchant, to 
the wood-hewer and the banker, without distinction 
of person. The librarian takes pleasure in announc- 
ing that this county work has passed its experimental 
stage, and now " it is no longer a question of devising 
ways to advertise the Library or to make its books 
attractive, but rather one of how to satisfy the clamor 
for more books. In 1905, the first year of county 
work, the circulation of books was 3,955, in 1906 
it grew to 13,358, in 1907 to 37,521, and in 
1908, still maintaining its rate of growth, it reached 
58,169." Seven reading-rooms, fourteen deposit 
stations, and nine fire companies (the last item is a 
little perplexing to a stranger ) are scattered through- 
out the county. This rural activity, controlled by a 
central library, has interested us and others of late; 
and it promises to produce excellent results in the 
more thinly populated sections of the country. The 
county library's usefulness in creating a demand for 
books would seem to be not inferior to the service it 
renders in supplying that demand. 

• • • 

The literature of the linotype, the machine 
whose general introduction fifteen years ago was 
momentous to the newspaper-printing industry, has 
increased in vogue within that comparatively short 
period to an astonishing extent. In 1894, as we 
learn from a late issue of " Printers' Ink," there was 
consumed in the newspaper trade of this country an 
amount of paper weighing four hundred thousand 
tons, and only thirteen years later the figures had 
risen to thrice that annual tonnage. The daily news- 
papers increased from 1855 in number sixteen years 
ago to 2374 last year, with a considerable gain also 
in weeklies. The discontinuing of the wetting pro- 
cess preparatory to printing (we no longer dry our 
morning paper over the register) is another of the 
mechanical improvements that marked the adoption 
of the labor-saving linotype, while methods and 
ideals have undergone no less a transformation in 
the editorial and administrative departments. Is it 
surprising, with all these acres of more or less irre- 
sistibly attractive printed matter clamoring every 
morning to be bought at prices ranging from a 
quarter to half a cent per square yard, that the Amer- 
ican bookstore is not quite so conspicuous a feature 
of the urban landscape as, for instance, the saloon, 
the cigar shop, and the ice-cream establishment? 



Menander on a modern stage constituted an 
event at Cambridge that was unique in the literal 
sense of that much misused adjective. "The 
Epitrepontes," the most considerable of the Men- 
ander fragments unearthed in Egypt four years ago 
by M. Gustave Lefebvre, was successfully staged 
and acted last month by the Classical Club of Har- 
vard. Perhaps one should not say " staged," how- 
ever, for the play was presented in a private house 
with a truly Greek simplicity in the matter of 
" properties " — with little, in fact, to hinder the 
imagination from transferring the scene to the prim- 
itive classic theatre of twenty-two centuries ago. 
The comedy itself is, of course, one of domestic 
intrigue, and seeks to amuse by the sprightliness of 
the dialogue in which the rather hackneyed plot is 
developed. Enough of the original remains — 532 
lines — to render the play intelligible and enjoyable ; 
and the Greek depai'tment of the University was 
unsparing in its efforts to do the great comedy- 
writer justice. A small chorus executed the ele- 
mentary dancing required, to the music composed 
for flutes by the late Professor Allen on the occa- 
sion of a Terence performance some years ago, and 
the ten actors acquitted themselves well. Plautus and 
Terence are no strangers to the modern stage ; but 
Menander, their master and model, is" now revived 
for the first time after his slumber of centuries. 
• • • 
The activity of the Atlanta Library, which, 
by the way, is one of the numerous Carnegie libra- 
ries that shed their blessings on the just and on the 
unjust alike throughout our favored land, is strik- 
ingly illustrated by a few facts gleaned from the 
librarian's tenth annual report. For example, the 
circulation has increased more rapidly in the last 
twelve months than in any previous year, being 
32,350 over that of 1907, and amounting to 164,600 
in all. A rent collection, to appease the clamor for 
new fiction, was installed on the first day of June, 
and 699 volumes had been bought at the close of the 
year, at a cost of $585.54. These volumes circu- 
lated 11,273 times, and the rent fee (one cent a day) 
exactly equalled in its total the amount spent in pur- 
chasing the books — a triumph in the fine art of 
making an institution exactly self-supporting, with 
neither surplus nor deficiency (unless this remark- 
able and beautiful coincidence is an error of the 
types). The year 1908 was the first year of a new 
librarian, Miss Julia T. Rankin ; and it is safe (as 
well as complimentary to her) to infer that no small 
part of the library's increased usefulness is attribut- 
able to the energy and wisdom of the new adminis- 
tration. . . . • 

Honor among public library patrons ought 
to be a matter of course ; they ought to respect one 
another's rights. The old phrase, "honor among 
thieves," implies this mutual consideration in a 
much lower social stratum. Unregistered borrow- 
ings and law-forbidden mutilations are acts that 
sorely try the patience (to put it mildly) of a whole 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



261 



community. In process of time, it may be hoped, 
there will be developed so universal and deeply- 
planted a sense of the entire unfitness of such out- 
rages on the public that no person, with a grain of 
self-respect, will dream of violating the wholesome 
and necessary rules of the hospitably open free 
library, any more than one would now dream of 
poisoning a public well or wantonly vitiating the 
air of heaven. Encouraging in this connection is 
an announcement in the current report of the John 
Crerar Library that whereas in 1907 twenty-one 
books were lost from the open shelves of its reading- 
room, in 1908 only eight such losses were noted. 
Presumably, too, the use of the room was greater 
in the latter year, and perhaps also the number of 
books exposed. Let us make the most of all such 
signs of increasing honor and enlightenment. 
• • • 

A YOUTHFULLY ACTIVE VETERAN OF LETTERS, 

whom his many jnniors and few contemporaries can- 
not but behold with admiration, as well as respect, 
and whom we have before paid tribute to in these 
columns, sets forth on the European tour, in his 
ninety-second year, apparently with all the zest and 
expectancy of a stripling, and with far more likeli- 
hood of turning his foreign experiences to good 
account, both for himself and for the world at large. 
Mr. John Bigelow departed for France last month 
to indulge once more his old and cultivated fondness 
for " doing Europe " — or at least some small part 
of it. Whether, on his return, he will have some- 
thing new to tell us about Franklin in France, or 
some other contribution to make to biography or 
history, will appear in the sequel. Not even the 
elder Cato, with his octogenarian zeal for new enter- 
prises — including the learning of Greek and the 
(less laudable) instigation of the third Punic war — 
and not even Dr. Martineau, with his greatest liter- 
ary work executed in his nineties, are more worthy 
of admiration and emulation from the youngsters of 
seventy and under. , , , 

A RUBBISH-HEAP OF READING MATTER that no 

one has ever read or ever will read goes on piling 
itself up in Washington at a fearful rate. A com- 
mittee of investigation has found nine thousand five 
hundred tons of accumulated government publica- 
tions stored away at a cost of thousands of dollars 
yearly for storage. A railway freight train loaded 
with these useless volumes would extend some three 
miles in length. Is there another country in the 
world that prints so many unspoken speeches and 
unimportant reports ? It is significant that the terms 
of the recent pension bill allow the pension printing 
to be done by private contract, this being more 
economical — less lavishly uneconomical, rather — 
than government printing. Curious and deplorable 
is it that while millions perish of hunger in India, 
and other millions undergo intellectual starvation the 
world over, this free and enlightened country spends 
millions of dollars in printing and illustrating and 
binding and storing books that nobody needs. No 



one approves this foolish expenditure — except per- 
haps the recipients of the money spent, and probably 
not even these recipients in their lucid and honest 
moments. ... 

The ACUMEN of an English critic displays 
itself to the reader's wonderment in a recent review 
of President Eliot's "University Administration." 
The reviewer, whose article appears in one of the 
foremost London literary weeklies, gravely discusses 
the book as if it were from the pen of a hitherto 
unknown writer, a new light in the educational 
world, and one that it has been reserved to the 
reviewer to make known to the public ; and for the 
further instruction of that public the conjecture is 
hazarded that Mr. Eliot is " presumably an Ameri- 
can." Verily, the Dutch have taken Holland. Had 
it but been possible for Dr. Eliot to gratify the desire 
of his fellow-countrymen by accepting the English 
ambassadorship, our London reviewer might, by 
some lucky chance, have discovered that his conjec- 
ture was correct. As it is, he is likely to go to his 
grave with no more definite knowledge of one 
Charles W. Eliot than that he is "presumably an 
American." , , , 

A STRENUOUS LIBRARIAN (for such there are 
in the library-world ) is lost to us in the death of Dr. 
James H. Canfield, for many years prominent in the 
educational and especially the college world, and for 
the last ten years at the head of the Columbia Uni- 
versity Library. For robust vigor and personal 
force few librarians are to be compared with him. 
Those who have ever seen him on the speakers' plat- 
form or met him in personal intercourse will retain 
this impression of abounding vitality. We remember 
the applause of mirth and approval that greeted one 
of his utterances before a university graduating 
class some years ago, when he assured the young 
hopefuls before him that if they wished to succeed 
in life it must be quite as much by perspiration as 
by aspiration ; and he mopped his steaming brow as 
the sun poured in on him that hot June afternoon. 
It was he, by the way, who proposed, not long ago, 
a plan that might be called the syndicating of our 
public libraries for their mutual benefit and the 
advantage of the public — a scheme that, not wholly 
to our regret, still slumbers in the embryo. 
• • • 

George Herbert, as the originator of 
Fletcherism, under another name, is doubtless less 
well-known than George Herbert the early seven- 
teenth-century poet. According to Professor George 
Herbert Palmer, a recognized authority in matters 
concerning his great namesake, Herbert's " Hygi- 
asticon," which in turn is the offspring of Luigi 
Comaro's " Trattato della Vita Sobria," teaches the 
principles of Fletcherism, three centuries before 
Mr. Horace Fletcher's time. Yet it may very well 
be that Mr. Fletcher had never read or even heard 
of the " Hygiasticon " when he wrote his little book 
on the art of correct mastication ; and the Harvard 



252 



THE DIAL 



[April 16, 



professor's perhaps rather unkind disclosure of its 
existence and its nature only illustrates anew an old 
saw too familiar to call for repetition here. But 
whether we Herbertize or Fletcherize our daily 
bread, the hygienic effect will probably be the same. 



COMMUNIGA TIONS. 



COPYRIGHT AND THE IMPORTATION 

PRIVILEGE. 

(To the Editor of The Dial.) 

In the summary presented in the April 1 number of 
The Dial of the changes in the copyright law that will 
go into effect under the new statute, the opinion is 
expressed that the privilege of importing, irrespective 
of the permission of the owner of the copyright, copies 
of books which have secured copyright in the United 
States should not be restricted to libraries, associations, 
and individuals, as is the case under the new statute, but 
should be extended also to booksellers. 

The provision as it now stands concedes practically to 
all the citizens of the United States, excepting only 
booksellers, the privilege of being placed outside of the 
ordinary and logical restrictions of copyright law. 

If your view of the matter should have prevailed, or 
if, with any future reshaping of the law, such an exten- 
sion might be brought into force, there might well be 
question as to the character or the value of the property 
that came into the hands of the publisher who made 
purchase, from the producer, of an American copyright. 

The privilege of importing, irrespective of the per- 
mission of the owner of the copyright, foreign editions 
of books that have secured American copyright, is of 
course entirely inconsistent with the principle and prac- 
tice of copyright law. In no coimtry other than the 
United States has the attempt ever been made thus to 
restrict and imdennine the value of copyright property. 
In the United States, the sevei-al copyright statutes that 
had been in force prior to 1891 were consistent in this 
matter of securing for the owner of the copyright, and 
for his assign, the exclusive control of the book or other 
article copyrighted. 

The provision in the existing law (which has been 
copied into the new statute) under which the privilege 
of importing such copyrighted books, irrespective of the 
permission of the owner or of the assign, is accorded 
practically to everybody who is not a bookseller, was 
interpolated into the act of 1891 during the last hours 
of the session. 

The law of 1891 had been the subject of discussion 
for a period of five years. At no time during those 
discussions was any suggestion made that in conceding, 
under reciprocity provisions, copyright to authors who 
were citizens or residents of other states, those authors 
should not be placed in a position to transfer to their 
assign, the American publisher, the full control of a 
copyrighted work. 

Under present conditions, when an American pub- 
lisher divides with an English publisher a publication 
originating in Great Britain, or a series of an interna- 
tional character contributions for which are secured 
from all parts of the world, the English publisher 
obtains, under the British law and under tlie provisions 
of the Berne Convention, the full control and advan- 
tage of the editions brought into print by himself, for 



Great Britain, for the British Empire, and for Europe. 
He also secures, under the inconsistent provisions of the 
American law, the right to distribute copies of his edi- 
tions throughout the United States, a right of which he 
is naturally availing himself to an increasing extent 
from year to year. 

The American publisher, on the other hand, is entirely 
excluded from Great Britain and from Europe, and 
secures in his own market not the exclusive control, 
which is the theory of copyright law, but simply the 
privilege of selling in competition with the English 
publisher. 

Such an operation of the law works injustice and, ne- 
cessarily, discourages international publishing arrange- 
ments and joint publishing undertakings. It constitutes 
what might be called " boomerang " protection, — that 
is to say, it is a specific advantage given by American 
law to a foreign competitor. 

The American publisher does not ask for any special 
privileges. He does ask, and he has a right to secure, 
under any civilized system of copyright, the control of 
the property that he purchases and in which he is called 
upon to make investment. The American reading pub- 
lic has, apart from the matter of doing justice to the 
American publisher, a direct interest in securing an 
equitable and consistent copyright law. It is important 
for the literary and higher educational interests of the 
country, and for the requirements of American book- 
buyers, that the business of producing American editions 
of books originating abroad, shall be encouraged. It is 
also important for the same interests that the business 
should be encouraged of bringing into publication inter- 
national series the contributions for which shall be 
secured from all parts of the world. The American 
reader is entitled to the best that there is in the matter 
of science or literature. This can be secured only if 
the production of American editions of international 
series can be furthered. Under existing conditions, the 
publication of such series and of American editions of 
transatlantic books is, of necessity, discouraged. 

1 may give as an example the " Cambridge History 
of English Literature." The publishers are called upon 
to make in the production of tlie American edition of 
this work an investment that will amount to some thirty 
thousand dollars. The work, from its compass and 
character, must depend for its chief demand upon 
libraries, or upon the wealthier of individual buyers, 
those who are likely to have connections and accounts 
on the other side of the Atlantic. A large portion, 
and an increasing portion, however, of the American 
demand for this set is being supplied, through London 
purchasing agents, with copies of the English issue. 
This is not because the English issue is more attractively 
printed, for the typography of the American volume 
is more satisfactory. The difference in price is but 
trifling. The librarians, however, who have standing 
arrangements with purchasing agents in London, find it 
an inconvenience to instruct these agents to except from 
their shipments books which are being produced in 
copyrighted American editions, while the purchasing 
agent is, naturally, interested in making his shipments 
as large as possible. As a result of such standing in- 
structions, it is frequently the case that the American 
librarian purchases the English edition of a work at 
a considerably higher price than he would pay for an 
American edition equally attractive in form, and often 
better suited for the needs of the American market. 

It is, however, quite in order that in the cases in which 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



263 



a purchaser, whether a librarian or an individual buyer, 
prefers the transatlantic to the American edition, he 
should be placed in the position to secure such trans- 
atlantic issue. Under the American law back of 1891, 
there was no difficulty, and under the present English 
statute, there is no difficulty, in importing, under the per- 
mission of the ovoner of the copyright, copies of the trans- 
atlantic edition. Such an order can be placed either 
directly with the publisher controlling the copyright, or 
with any intelligent bookseller, whose importation is 
then made through the publisher. Such an arrange- 
ment would meet your suggestion that a customer who 
may not have a transatlantic account should be placed 
in a position to purchase, through a bookseller, a copy 
of the English issue, securing the same privilege that 
is accorded to the individual who happens to possess 
an accoimt in London. The only requirement made 
under a consistent and equitable copyright law is that 
the importation must be made through the publisher to 
whom has been assigned the American copyright. 

There is no little confusion in the mind of the public 
generally, and of their representatives the legislators, 
in regard to this matter of a consistent and equitable 
copyright, a copyright that shall carry out the expressed 
purpose of copyright law, — the furthering of literary 
production. 

Those who are interested in the work of bringing the 
United States in this matter of copyright into line with 
the other civilized states of the world, are naturally 
anxious that the influence of a journal like The Dial 
should not be given to furthering a confused under- 
standing of the nature of copyright or of the actual work- 
ing of copyright law with reference to the interests not 
only of authors and of publishers, but of the book-buying 
community. 

As an appendix to this communication I quote an 
opinion that has come to me from Mr. L. E. Scaife, one 
of the leaders of the Suffolk Bar (Boston) in regard to 
the right on the part of the owner of a copyright, or of 
an assign, under the English and American statutes, to 
control the matter of importations of the copyrighted 
article. 

"Since the year 1710, nobody but the owner of the English 
copyright of book has had the right to import into England 
such copyrighted book without the written consent of such 
owner ; and from 1790 down to the passage of the United States 
Statute, of 1891, nobody but the owner of the United States Copy- 
right of a book had the right to import into the United States 
such copyrighted book without the consent of the owner. The 
United States law concerning importation was so clearly adapted 
from the English statute of 1710 that the English decisions have 
of necessity been given great weight in the American courts. . . . 
The provisions of the act of March 3rd, 1891, ought to be inter- 
preted in connection with the entire history of the copyright law 
of the world." 

Geo. Haven Putnam. 

New York, April 6, 1909. 



THE COST OF CIRCULATING A LIBRARY BOOK. 

(To the Editor of The Dial.) 
The extent of The Dial's circle of readers would 
seem to justify some comment on your recent remarks, 
even assuming that they were " writ sarcastic," on the 
cost of circulating a library book. 

Whereas it would undoubtedly be possible to obtain 
the actual cost, I know of no library in which it is done. 
For the most part, critics divide the total expenditures 
by the number of volumes circulated, and quote the 
result as the cost per book. Some, endeavoring to be 



fairer, divide the amount spent on salaries by the vol- 
umes circulated, and quote the result thus obtained as 
the cost. 

Both methods are plainly inaccurate. The first sys- 
tem charges up as part of the cost of circulating a book 
the upkeep of grounds, lecture courses, and reference 
work; also the cost of the books themselves. When 
this last item is included the library that circvilates tech- 
nical books that average between .$3. and ."S4. each, 
makes an infinitely worse showing than the library that 
circulates the " Duchess " books, which cost between 30 
and 40 cents each. The second method is faulty because 
a Ubrary's salary list includes the salaries of persons 
connected solely with regular reference work, attendants 
for the bulk of the books on stacks which are rarely 
circulated, and cataloguers and bibliographers. Again, 
as it costs more to engage cataloguers who can catalogue 
Incunabula than it does to hire those who can handle 
the " Duchess," the higher the class of books accumu- 
lated by the library the worse its comparative showing. 
Or take the Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion. Printed analytical cards for the 1907 volume 
cost $1.16: the clerical labor in accessioning, preparing 
the book for the shelves and filing the cards would not 
be less than 25 to 35 cents, so that the total cost of 
cataloguing such a book is nearly SI. 50. 

Many libraries, too, when books that are called for 
are out, reserve them, and send postal notices when they 
are returned, without charge. Each such case adds one 
cent to the cost of circulation, in addition to necessary 
clerical work. 

A branch library in Philadelphia, of which I had 
charge, circulated over 300,000 volumes at a cost, if 
figured by the first method, of about four and one-half 
cents. That was remarkably low, but the cost of 
administration in a branch library is always proportion- 
ally lower than that in a regular library. This library 
last year circulated over 150,000 volumes, and as its 
total expenses were less than S7,200 the cost per vol- 
ume circulated, figured by the first method, was about 
four cents. But last year was its first year of opera- 
tion, and in addition to its reference work not being 
fully developed, repairs to plant, bindery bills and 
replacements were lower than they can ever be in the 
future. As increased reading and research work is 
done in the building the cost of operating the library as 
compared with the number of volumes circulated will 
increase — and we are looking forward to such develop- 
ment. 

One word more. A Children's Room over which 1 
had charge at one time had but 2,500 volumes, yet it 
circulated annually over 60,000 volumes, a turnover 
circulation of 24. On no day throughout the year were 
there more than 800 volumes in the library at one time, 
so that there was little shelving to keep in shape, while 
the room itself was small, with but three tables. The 
cost of administration was so low that it probably was 
a record breaker, but it should not be quoted, because 
neither sufficient books nor adequate facilities were pro- 
vided for the children. 

Does it not seem that the discussion of circulation 
costs, as at present figured, is really not only useless, 
but likely to do much harm to libraries that are endeav- 
oring to put more useful and therefore more expensive 
books in the hands of their readers? 

O. R. Howard Thomson 

The James V. Jirown Library, 
Williamsport, Pa., April 7, 1909. 



254 



THE DIAL 



[April 16, 



Cfei I^to g00ks. 



Chinese Women and Chinese Ways.* 



Little by little, through the letters and diaries 
of missionaries and travellers, the western world 
is becoming better acquainted with that vast 
domain of the mysterious, the unexpected, the 
bewildering, and the anomalous, the Chinese 
Empire. But it will be long ere the mammoth 
puzzle is so completely solved as to lose its charm 
for lovers of the novel, the curious, and the 
baffling. Mrs. Conger, widow of our late Min- 
ister to the Court of Peking, writes her " Letters 
from China " with all the zest, all the fresh 
curiosity, of an intelligent and observant woman 
visiting new and, in some instances, startling 
scenes for the first time. The character of her 
book, and its claims upon our serious attention, 
may be indicated by a few explanatory sentences 
from her " Foreword." 

" From my entrance into China, on through seven 
years, I worked with a fixed purpose to gain clearer 
ideas. To avoid all formalities and to simplify the 
recording of events, I have chosen, and here present, 
some of my private letters written to our daughter, 
sisters, nieces, and nephews. In these letters many heart- 
stories are told. May each letter carry a ray of light 
into the hearts of its readers, and reveal a little of the 
real character of the Chinese as it has been revealed to 
me. Our experiences in China were unique and extreme 
in many ways. Through the smaller and larger avenues 
of the almost iron-clad customs of China I was permitted 
to pass and to enter places where I beheld many won- 
derful things. That others may look upon a modified 
panorama of these views and help to correct the wide- 
spread and erroneous ideas about China and her people, 
I present this letter compilation." 

It is but natural that the women of China, 
and especially the most conspicuous woman of 
her time, the late Empress Dowager, should 
have most interested this American sojourner. 
" The many conversations awarded me with Her 
Majesty," writes Mrs. Conger, " revealed much 
of the concealed force and value of China's 
women. Ignorance of these qualities has brought 
a pronounced misrepresentation of China's 
womanhood." 

Early in 1898 Mr. Conger was called upon to 
transfer his diplomatic services from Brazil to 
the far East, and in the summer of that year 
we find his wife writing her first impressions of 
things Asiatic from the American Legation at 
Peking. She had ^earned from her Brazilian 
experience that, to learn to understand a foreign 

* Letters from China. With Particular Reference to the 
Empress Dowager and the Women of China. By Sarah Pike 
Conger (Mrs. E. H. Conger). With eighty illustrations from 
photographs, and a map. Chicago: A. C. McClurg & Co. 



country and to breathe its atmosphere, one must 
not constantly carry one's home with one, and 
hug the pleasing notion of American superiority 
to all other nations. She descended from her 
imaginary height " with the determination to 
seek with open eyes and a willing heart," and 
found herself amply rewarded. An autumn out- 
ing that took the form of a visit to the Great 
Wall gives occasion for the following cheerful 
observations : 

" Such a happy ride! On our way we saw many hun- 
dreds of fine camels ; these camels rest during the day 
and travel with their packs at night. The prosperity 
of the country was shown by the fine flocks of sheep, in 
the hundreds of mules laden with wool, hides, tea, fruits, 
grain, fodder, cotton, and other commodities. We met 
pack-cattle from Mongolia with red-faced Mongol 
drivers. We also met a number of mule litters, a few 
carts drawn by mules, and many men riding on don- 
keys. All were bent on business, and we were forcibly 
impressed with the fact that the Chinese do not seek 
their pleasure in travel. This well-kept road is a direct 
pass over the mountains from Peking to Mongolia and 
Russia." 

An event of considerable importance is chron- 
icled in an early page. Mrs. Conger formed one 
of a party of foreign ministers' wives who were 
the first women from the outer world to visit 
the imperial court and to be received by the 
imperial majesties. December 13, 1898, was 
the epochal date of this sublime function, and 
the account of it, too long to reproduce here, 
is worthy of the occasion. Concerning the 
Empress Dowager herself, the centre of interest 
throughout the gorgeous pageant, we read : 

" She was bright and happy and her face glowed 
with good will. There was no trace of cruelty to be 
seen. In simple expressions she welcomed us, and her 
actions were full of freedofn and warmth. Her Majesty 
arose and wished us well. She extended both hands 
toward each lady, then, touching herself, said with much 
enthusiastic earnestness, 'One family; all one family.'" 

Upon the death of this masterful woman a 
few months ago, Mrs. Conger wrote an appre- 
ciation of her character, and from this obituary 
eulogy, which is printed as an " Afterword " 
to her narrative, a few sentences may here be 
quoted. They are of value as coming from 
one who was admitted to " an acquaintance that 
grew into friendship." 

" Her Majesty's keen perception knew the nations, 
and she often spoke to me with deep appreciation of 
America's attitude toward China. . . . For forty-seven 
years this able woman has stood at the head of the 
Chinese Empire, and strong men have given their sup- 
port. In a land where woman has had so little official 
standing, Her Majesty's achievements make her ability 
and strength more pronounced ; and China, surely, must 
be jealous for this reign in the sight of other nations 
. . . Through this woman's life the world catches a 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



255 



glimpse of the hidden quality of China's womanhood. 
It savors of a quality that might benefit that of the 
Western World." 

In one of her earlier letters Mrs. Conger says 
that " the honor of woman is her child-bearing, 
and the more boys the greater the honor. The 
better classes of Chinese women never see for- 
eign men and seldom meet men of their own 
people. I am told that they do not labor ; a 
noble life-work is done if they bear even one 
or two children." As to those who do labor, 
the servants of both sexes, she has much to say, 
chiefly commendatory. 

" I never knew such wonderful servants in ray life ; 
they are quiet, gentle, kind, and willing. Each knows 
his own work and does it. . . . The Chinese are quiet 
and accurate in their methods. They handle large 
columns of figures, make delicate calculations, and no 
amount of confusion or jostling disturbs them; they 
work calmly on and seldom make mistakes. In Japan 
and in the foreign concessions I noticed that the banks 
employ the Chinese for their most important detail 
work. When in one of the large banks, I asked why the 
Chinese were employed in these responsible positions. 
The reply was : ' The three principal reasons are that 
they are honest, self-possessed, and accurate. They 
move so quietly that we are astonished at what they 
accomplish.' " 

The Boxer disturbances, falling within the 
period of Mr. and Mrs. Conger's residence in 
Peking, afforded material for many anxious 
entries in the diary kept by the wife during 
that trying time, when communication with the 
outside world was almost entirely suspended and 
the long days of harrowing suspense dragged 
slowly by. For weeks every entry in this diary 
must have been made with little expectation that 
it would be followed by another. The wonder 
is that the writer, distracted by so many other 
claims on her time and attention, and with an 
intermittent hail of bullets and cannon-balls 
dealing death on every side, could have com- 
manded sufficient composure to carry on her 
journal of horrors. But the besieged, even 
those of the weaker sex, have done this before, 
as at Lucknow, at Lady smith, and at many 
another place stormed at by shot and shell and 
in momentary expectation of the worst. After 
the concentration of the foreign ministerial per- 
sonages and their servants, dependants, and 
military forces within the fortified enclosure of 
the British Legation, Mrs. Conger recorded, 
when the agony was at its height, the following 
incident : 

" The other day I said to a scholarly Chinese, ' Will 
you help to fill these sand bags ? ' He replied, * I am 
no coolie.' Then I in turn said, ' I am no coolie either, 
but we must all work here and now. I will hold the bag 
and you come and shovel the sand.' I took a bag and 
a Russian-Greek priest stepped forward and filled it. He 



spoke no English and I no Russian, but we both under- 
stood the language of the situation. Other people rallied 
about us, and we soon stepped aside. Our work was 
finished. This scholarly Chinese was of the American 
Legation's staff helpers. As rank is so respected in 
China, and as the Chinese do not wish to degrade the 
ranks, this man, from his point of view, could not fill 
sand bags. Mr. Conger talked with him, saying, ' Your 
life as well as ours is to be protected here, and you must 
do your part or we cannot feed you.' The man was in 
hiding three days. As our coming troops did not come, 
and he was near to starvation, he came to the front, 
willing to do what he could." 

Still more vividly is the peril depicted in an 
earlier passage, from which a brief extract 
solicits space for insertion. 

" This morning three quarts of bullets were picked 
up that the enemy had fired into the American Legation. 
They are to be melted and made into balls for the big 
gmi belonging to the Italians. All the temple candle- 
sticks, vases, images, in fact everything that can be 
melted, have been gathered and moulded into ammuni- 
tion. ... A large iron ball just fell below our window, 
but it did no harm. The ball is still warm. Another, 
at least six inches in diameter, went whizzing through 
the walls of the British Minister's dining-room. For- 
tunately it passed near the ceiling, so it did no damage 
aside from knocking off a corner of the frame of Queen 
Victoria's portrait. The Chinese are firing their big 
guns by far too much for our comfort." 

Among the now somewhat numerous pub- 
lished diaries and letters and reminiscences of 
diplomats' wives — which have a way of being 
much more agreeable and sprightly reading than 
their husbands' official despatches — Mrs. Con- 
ger's volume is worthy of a high place. In 
range of observation and in fluency of descriptive 
narration she is not unlike Madame Waddington, 
also an American by birth and breeding. The 
photographic illustrations of persons and places 
are generous in number and excellent in work- 
manship, and combine well with the handsome 
style of the book and its large, clear type to 
make it a very attractive volume. 

Percy F. Bicknell. 



The Right Arm of the Confederacy.* 



Dr. White's volume on Stonewall Jackson is 
one of the " American Crisis Biographies," in 
which Bruce's life of Robert E. Lee has already 
appeared ; these being the only two Confederate 
generals included in the series. The present 
volume follows the bad practice of omitting the 
date of publication from the title-page — a fault 
that is continued in the bibliography, which fails 
to give the date of publication, as well as the name 

• Stonewall Jackson. By Henry Alexander White, A.M., 
Ph.D. " American Crisis Biographies." Philadelphia: Georgre 
W. Jacobs & Co. 



256 



THE DIAL 



[AprU 16, 



of the publisher, of books to which reference is 
made. The bibliography is fairly complete, but 
although giving Colonel William Allan's " Jack- 
son's Valley Campaign " (1880), it omits his 
" Army of Northern Virginia in 1862 " (1892), 
the best work that has been published on this 
campaign. Colonel Henderson's excellent life of 
Jackson not excepted ; it also omits Hotchkiss 
and Allan's book on Chancellorsville (1867), the 
first complete account of this notable battle that 
was published after the war. Whoever compiled 
the index to Dr. White's book has been guilty 
of the error of confusing the references to two 
officers, General Richard B. Garnett, command- 
ing the "Stonewall Brigade" in the battle of 
Kernstown, and Lieutenant-Colonel Thomas S. 
Garnett, 48th Virginia regiment, commanding 
the second brigade of Jackson's division at the 
battle of Cedar Mountain. The last two refer- 
ences (pp. 241, 242) are to the latter, whose 
name is omitted in the index. 

Dr. White's book gives us the usual accounts 
of General Jackson's early life, his career at 
West Point, in Mexico, and at the Virginia 
Military Institute to the spring of 1861. In 
this portion of his work the author draws upon 
the Rev. Dr. Dabney's " Life and Campaigns of 
General Jackson " and Mrs. Jackson's " Life 
and Letters," both excellent authorities, and 
the latter a vivid portraiture of his domestic 
life. He shows us how conscientious and delib- 
erate were Jackson's position and actions in 
the Civil War. With respect to the questions 
agitating the country at the outbreak of the 
war. Dr. White says truly : " His judgment 
and his sympathies were in full accord with the 
views that prevailed among the people of the 
South with reference to political and social 
affairs." Dr. White also makes clear the fact 
that Jackson " was always a friend and bene- 
factor to the colored man," as was shown by his 
teaching in and contributing to the support of 
a colored Sunday-school in Lexington. " He 
believed, however, says his wife, ' that the Bible 
taught that slavery was sanctioned by the 
Creator Himself . . . for ends which it was 
not his business to determine.' " He believed, 
too, that " the South ought to resist aggression, 
if necessary by the sword," and that any of the 
States had the right to secede from the Union. 
Therefore, when Virginia chose to exercise that 
right, he was found in thorough accord with 
all her people except some dwelling in West 
Virginia. In a short speech to his student 
cadets, on the occasion of raising the Virginia 
flag at the Military Institute at Lexington, he 



said : " The time may come when your State 
will need your services ; and if that time does 
come, then draw your swords and throw away 
the scabbards." This tersely shows the spirit 
of the man ; and it is credibly stated that later 
in the war he was in favor of raising the black 
flag. Whatever he did, he believed in doing 
thoroughly. He accepted, with General Sher- 
man, the dictum that "War is hell," and was 
ready to act upon it. 

Dr. White has given a succinct and well- 
selected account of the chief events in General 
Jackson's life, and has written a book that will 
serve as a good resume of his military career. 
We should have liked a fuller criticism of his 
generalship ; but that want has been already 
well supplied in Colonel Henderson's book, to 
which we have referred. His military talents 
were not appreciated until after his Valley cam- 
paign, which was, indeed, the first occasion on 
which he had an opportunity to display them. 

While in command at Harper's Ferry, in 
1861, Jackson formed the First Brigade of the 
Army of the Shenandoah, composed of the 2d, 
4th, 5th, 27th, and 33d Virginia regiments, and 
the Rockbridge Artillery, which last had been 
organized at Lexington, Virginia, and was com- 
manded by the Rev. Dr. William N. Pendleton, 
rector of the Episcopal Church in Lexington and 
a graduate of West Point. When General 
Joseph E. Johnston was placed in command at 
Harper's Ferry, Colonel Jackson was assigned 
to the command of the First Brigade, and was 
soon promoted to the rank of brigadier-general, 
receiving his commission at Winchester, July 3, 
1861. The name of " Stonewall ' ' was due to an 
exclamation made by General Bee, when rally- 
ing his own brigade at Manassas (Bull Run) on 
July 21 of that year. The phraseology is given 
differently by different writers, but that given 
by Dr. White will answer as well as any other : 
" Look ! There is Jackson standing like a stone 
wall ! Rally behind the Virginians ! ' ' (pp. 87-8). 
There is no question that Jackson's charge 
at the opportune moment gained the day at 
Manassas. He was always in favor of a charge, 
and of " giving them the bayonet." 

On the occasion of this memorable battle, the 
Rockbridge Artillery— to which body the writer 
of the present article belonged — had been firing 
for about two and a half hours, chiefly at Griffin's 
and Ricketts's batteries near the Henry house, — 
Jackson's brigade meanwhile lying down in the 
woods in the rear, — when the artillery was 
suddenly ordered off the field, much to their 
surprise. As soon as they had cleared the 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



267 



ground, the infantry were ordered to rise and 
charge ; and as the other troops did the same, 
and Early's and Kirby Smith's brigades came 
in on the left, the enemy were soon put to flight 
and did not stop before reaching Centre ville. 
It is the writer's belief that our victorious troops 
should have pressed on to Washington, as 
General Jackson wished, supplies or no supplies, 
and there seems little reason to doubt that we 
could have reached the Federal capital. 

The limits of this article will not permit even 
an outline of General Jackson's full career. It 
will be found well stated in Dr. White's book. 
For the early portion of it, the reader is directed 
especially to Colonel Allan's " Jackson's Valley 
Campaign," for it was this campaign that called 
attention to Jackson's military abilities, and it 
affords material for a special study in military 
strategy. His main object was to prevent the 
reinforcement of McClellan near Richmond ; and 
in this he succeeded to his complete satisfac- 
tion. After routing Milroy and Schenck at 
McDowell, Jackson hastened back to the Valley 
and there overthrew Banks. Then, escaping 
" by the skin of his teeth " between Fremont 
and Shields, he routed them both on successive 
days, so that one retreated to Strasburg and the 
other to Front Royal. After a short breathing- 
space, Jackson hurried to Richmond and aided 
General Lee, forcing McClellan's army back to 
Harrison's Landing on the James River — the 
so-called " change of base." There was a 
" change of base," but the prevailing cause of 
it was the defeat of Porter's corps at Gaines's 
Mill, June 27, caused by Jackson's well-timed 
attack on the Confederate left. While Jackson 
failed to accomplish what Lee had wished at 
White Oak Swamp, and the army failed at 
Malvern Hill by reason of its irregular and 
disjointed attacks on that formidable position, 
the general result was the relief of Richmond 
and the withdrawal of McClellan's army to 
Alexandria. The battle of Cedar Mountain 
and the defeat 6f Banks's troops on that field 
were but an episode in Pope's campaign. His 
turn came at Manassas, from which his " grand 
army " took refuge in the fortifications around 
Washington. Jackson's corps withstood Pope 
at Manassas until Longstreet arrived and made 
his attack on the right, which lack of daylight 
alone prevented from being a complete success. 
A few weeks later the battle of Sharpsburg 
(Antietam) followed, a battle of one to two and a 
half — 35,000 to 87,000 — and rightly charac- 
terized as " the best-fought battle of the war " on 
the Confederate side. After giving McClellan 



an opportunity to attack the next day, which 
he did not take. General Lee retired across the 
Potomac. A little later McClellan was suc- 
ceeded by Burnside, whose bloody attack and 
repulse at Fredericksburg soon followed. Then, 
in May, with Hooker in command of the 
Northern army, Jackson performed his brilliant 
feat of marching around and surprising the 
Union right, effecting again a Confederate vic- 
tory, which was clouded by the loss of his own life 
from wounds received from some of his men while 
venturing on a personal reconnoissance beyond 
his lines in the dark. It is hardly too much to 
say that in that dire mishap perished the hopes 
of the Confederacy. How great, how irrepar- 
able, was that loss was shown only a few weeks 
later at the battle of Gettysburg, which has 
been rightly regarded as the turning-point of 
the war- With Jackson's genius in strategy 
and power in action added to the strength of the 
Confederates, who can say how different might 
have been the issue of that great battle, and 
even of the war ? j^^es M. Garnett. 



The ^Esthetic Value of Asian Art.* 



Disillusionment is not always desirable. The 
delectable domain of the imagination affords a 
welcome retreat from the wear and tear of the 
work-day world. But it is a land wherein the 
verities are not physical ; and in contemplating 
the sober facts of the universe there is gain, not 
loss, in being able to see them as they really are. 

This is peculiarly true as regards the finer 
achievements of Oriental art. One by one, 
Western misconceptions of the East have given 
way before the tide of advancing knowledge. 
No longer do we speak of that part of the world 
as " gorgeous," " magnificent," or " unchang- 
ing." These phrases belong to a day when 
nearly the whole sum of available information 
was supplied by such books as "The Arabian 
Nights" and "The Travels of Marco Polo," 
and found its echo in poems like Coleridge's 
" Kubla Khan," and in the paintings of Dela- 
croix and other artists of the Romantic school. 
Testifying to the existence of the opulent splen- 
dor that inspired these works were the marvel- 
lously beautiful carpets and other fabrics that 
for hundreds of years have found their way to 
Europe through the bazaars of Constantinople, 
the decorated pottery from Persia, the inlaid 

* Painting in thr Far East. An Introduction to the History 
of Pictorial Art in Asia, especially China and Japan. By 
Laurence Biny on. Illustrated. New York: Longmans, Green, 
&Co. 



268 



THE DIAL 



[April 16, 



arms and armor, and the precious stones 
brought from India by the early traders and 
soldiers who visited that far-away land. Then 
came the glowing accounts of visitors to China 
and Japan, and the lovely porcelains, the rich 
silks, the charming lacquer, brought from these 
countries. What wonder that these things should 
give rise to visions of abounding wealth and 
luxury? 

Gradually we have learned that the people of 
the East are not rich but poor ; that the sensu- 
ous magnificence was never widespread, but 
chiefly found in the trappings of a few Moham- 
medan princes. We have learned, too, that the 
influence of Mohammedanism upon the creative 
arts has been blighting through the restrictions 
it has imposed. We have studied the decorative 
arts of India, Persia, China, and Japan, and 
have found them rich in suggestion and full 
of lessons for our artists and art lovers ; we have 
even, in the color prints of Japan, caught a 
glimpse of the pictorial art of the East at the 
point where it most nearly approaches that of 
the West. What in any general sense we have 
not yet apprehended is that back of all these 
manifestations there is a central tradition of 
Asian painting, based upon a coherent, clearly- 
visioned, and completely thought-out funda- 
mental metaphysic ; that in its essence it is an 
art of form rather than of color, an art domi- 
nated by poetical ideas, distinguished by extreme 
simplicity, exquisite refinement, and rigorous 
adhesion to aesthetic principles, and requiring 
for its expression a masterly technique. 

This art forms the theme of Mr. Laurence 
Binyon's " Painting in the Far East." His 
book is a notable one, comprehensive in its out- 
look, clear in its statements, and irrefragable in 
its philosophy. Realizing that the criteria by 
which the art of the East should be judged are 
not other than those we should apply to the art 
of the West, he has approached his subject 
with an open mind, and has not been led astray 
by either the strangeness of the conventions 
employed or by differences in the things repre- 
sented. These criteria are set forth with admir- 
able clarity in a remarkable opening chapter on 
" The Art of the East and the West," which as 
an exposition of basic principles coidd hardly be 
surpassed. To those who are imbued with the 
notion " absorbed from an age of triumphant 
science," as Mr. Binyon puts it, that the test of 
artistic merit is in fidelity to an external objec- 
tive standard, having the utmost attainable 
realism as its shibboleth, his telling phrases and 
forceful arguments may be especially com- 



mended. By those who have passed beyond 
the stage of art appreciation where that aU too 
common heresy is tenable, his words will be 
read with keen satisfaction. 

With Hsieh Ho, the Chinese artist and critic 
of the sixth century, whose theory of aesthetic 
principles formulated in his " Six Canons " is 
a classic imanimously accepted by posterity, 
Mr. Binyon rightly holds that rhythm, organic 
structure, and harmony are the paramount 
qualities in all works of art. Only as we grasp 
this concept are the higher beauties revealed to 
us, and their spiritual meanings made visible. 
Only through it are our eyes opened to the fuU 
significance of the truth that art consists in the 
welding of forms, hues, and tones into synthetic 
and organic unity, and that its vital essence is 
not imitative but creative. With deep insight 
Mr. Binyon writes : 

" In this theory every work of art is thought of as an 
incarnation of the genius of rhythm, manifesting the 
living spirit of things with a clearer beauty and inteuser 
power than the gross impediments of complex matter 
allow to be transmitted to our senses in the visible world 
around us. A picture is conceived as a sort of appari- 
tion from a more real world of essential life." 

Alone among all the great art movements in 
the world's history, Asian painting has followed 
unswervingly the guidance of this concept. Even 
the noble art of ancient Greece fell from its high 
estate into the slough of realism for realism's 
sake. But in the Far East, throughout all the 
changes in style caused by the coming into vogue 
of novel phases or manners of representation, — 
changes as numerous and varied as similar 
fashions and styles evolved in the course of cen- 
turies in the several countries of Europe, — the 
central tradition has never been lost sight of or 
departed from, until within very recent years 
through a baleful influx of Western ideas. The 
consequence is — or rather was, for the pale 
reflection that survives cannot be said to be 
more than half alive — an art absolutely self- 
contained, homogeneous, consistent, and, in its 
higher reaches, of tenuous but nevertheless 
entrancing purity. As aptly expressed by Mr. 
Binyon : 

" Who shall say of such an art that it is not mature, 
still less that it is impotent to express ideas ? In its 
coherence and its concentration, in its resolute hold on 
the idea of organic beauty, this tradition, so old in the 
East, manifests the character of an art that has reached 
complete development." 

It is not strange that this art should as yet 
be little understood or appreciated in Western 
lands, except by a small group of enthusiasts. 
Opportunities for seeing and studying fine works 
are extremely limited. Though a considerable 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



259 



number of paintings bearing the names of, or 
confidently attributed to, illustrious Chinese and 
Japanese artists, have found a market in Europe 
and America, many of them — in fact a very 
large percentage — are spurious or of doubtful 
authenticity. Besides the forgeries, there are 
ancient copies, some of them extremely clever, 
and works by lesser men with the signatures 
erased and others substituted. Even the for- 
eign dweller in the East may pass a decade there 
without getting a glimpse of a painting of the 
first rank. The owners of important works 
keep them carefully packed away in fire-proof 
storehouses, and though they are occasionally 
brought forth and exhibited to a chosen few, it 
is rarely indeed that a Western barbarian is 
included among those deemed worthy of the 
honor of seeing them. Why should such trea- 
sures be shown to those whose judgment in 
matters of art is hopelessly warped through the 
importation of scientific views ? This attitude 
of mind is well illustrated by an incident that 
occurred during the Columbian Exposition. 
One of the Japanese Commissioners brought 
with him when he came to Chicago a highly 
valued painting by one of the old masters. 
Showing it one day to a gentleman who was 
able to appreciate its fuU worth, he was asked 
why he did not hang it up where others might 
have a chance to enjoy its beauty. Note the 
reply : "I could not bear to see people pass it 
by without pausing to admire." When feeling 
is so intense as that indicated by these words, it 
is easy to understand how deep a wound may be 
inflicted by a flippant remark, or even by well- 
intentioned but ignorant and inept comment. 
From such suffering the Oriental saves himself 
by not casting his pearls where Circe's herd 
may come. 

For those in Europe and America who have 
cared to look into the merit of Asian painting 
the collections in the Boston Museum of Fine 
Arts and the British Museum, and works pass- 
ing through the hands of dealers, have afforded 
the chief opportunities. Besides these, paintings 
in private collections have furnished further 
sources to the few having access to them. Some 
information has been available from books, for 
the most part publications that are costly or not 
readily obtainable. The first glimpse of the sub- 
ject was given by Dr. William Anderson in an 
essay read before the Asiatic Society of Japan 
and printed in its Transactions in 1879. Next, 
in 1883, came the very inadequate chapter on 
painting in Louis Gonse's elaborate " L'Art 
Japonais." Three years later Dr. Anderson's 



monumental " Descriptive and Historical Cata- 
logue of Japanese and Chinese Paintings in the 
British Museum " was issued, and in the same 
year, also, his "Pictorial Arts of Japan," a 
sumptuous folio containing many elaborate repro- 
ductions of paintings. But the largest supply 
of material for study has been yielded by the 
Japanese magazine called " Kokka," now in its 
twentieth year, and by the splendid reproduc- 
tions in " Select Relics of Japanese Art," pub- 
lished in Tokyo and edited, with text in Japanese 
and English, by Mr. S. Tajima. Various minor 
sources of information might also be enimierated ; 
and in this country the illuminating lectures of 
the late Professor Ernest F. Fenollosa brought 
a precious fund of first-hand knowledge within 
reach of those so situated that they could attend 
them. 

Aside from these lectures there has hitherto 
been no presentation of a broad view over the 
entire field of Asian painting, following its 
development not only in China and Japan, but, 
so far as material exists, in Thibet, Persia, and 
other countries. Such a view is now furnished 
by Mr. Binyon's book. It is, as he says in the 
preface, " an attempt to survey the achievement 
and to interpret the aims of Oriental painting, 
and to appreciate it from the standpoint of a 
European in relation to the rest of the world's 
art." In this he has succeeded well, — remark- 
ably well, considering that his knowledge has 
been gained in the course of his official duties 
as keeper of the Chinese and Japanese paint- 
ings and prints in the British Museum, and that 
he has not been able to visit China and Japan, 
nor even to see the masterpieces of Oriental 
painting in the Boston Museum and in the mag- 
nificent collection formed by Mr. Charles L. 
Freer of Detroit. With wider opportunities it 
is possible that he would feel called upon to 
modify his conceptions of the work of particular 
artists, but the general historic outline and state- 
ment of guiding principles are all that could be 
desired. While future research may add ma- 
terially to our knowledge, it does not seem prob- 
able that there will be occasion to alter widely 
the main lines as here laid down. 

In one respect, and one only, the book is 
disappointing. A few minor blemishes, such as 
the retention of a form of spelling of Japanese 
names which does not correctly transliterate 
them, and which is now abandoned by Japanese 
scholars — more particularly the use of the silent 
y before the vowel e, — may be passed over 
without further mention. But the illustrations, 
though they include some exceptionally splendid 



260 



THE DIAL 



[AprQ 16, 



and impressive works, fall far short, on the 
whole, of being either adequate or fairly repre- 
sentative. Indeed it is not impossible that 
for some readers they may have the effect of 
controverting the author's cogent words, since 
pictures are likely to be more convincing than 
anything that can be said about them, more 
especially when their unfamiliar character makes 
it difficult to allow for the inevitable loss in 
reproduction by a mechanical process. At its 
best the collotype yields a lifeless residt ; and 
when it is employed to reproduce ancient paint- 
ings of which good photographs cannot be made, 
the feeble travesty that ensues is absolutely 
meaningless. It is fair to state that the choice 
was governed in this instance by the necessity 
of keeping the cost within reasonable limits. 
Mr. Binyon's book is worthy of more fitting 
illustration. Should another edition be called 
for it is hoped that such illustrations as are given 
will be of authenticated masterpieces, upon a 
scale and by a process that will reveal something 
of their qualities. Those in the present volume 
help the reader but little to realize the truth so 
well expressed in the sentences with which the 
book closes : 

" If we look back over the whole course of that great 
Asian tradition of painting which we have been follow- 
ing through the centuries, the art impresses us as a 
whole by its cohesion, solidarity, order, and harmony. 
But these qualities are not truly perceived till we know 
something of the life out of which it flowered. We then 
see that paintings which in themselves seem slight, light, 
and wayward are not mere individual caprices, but 
answer to the common thoughts of men, symbolize some 
spiritual desire, have behind them the power of sortie 
cherished and heart-refreshing ideal, and are supported 
by links of inttnite association with poetry, with religion, 
yet also with the lives of humble men and women. We 
shall study this art in vain if we are not moved to think 
more clearly, to feel more profoundly; to realize in the 
unity of all art, the unity of life." 

Frederick W. Gookin. 



The Maid of France.* 

It would seem that there can be at present no 
great need for either a biogi-aphy or a defence 
of Jeanne d'Arc. Her story is well known ; 
her achievements are admitted, and her place in 
history is secure ; the Church has placed her 
only a little lower than the saints. There was 
a time when the verdict of history was not so 
favorable ; but, so far as England is concerned, 
that time has long been past. Since the days 
of Dr. Lingard (and Lingard wrote nearly a 

• The Maid of France. By Andrew Lang. With portraits. 
New York: Longrmans, Green, & Co. 



century ago), no English historian of any repute 
has shown the least hostility either toward the 
Maid or toward her work. It is agreed on all 
sides that when the awakened French patriotism 
of the fifteenth century hurled the British inva- 
sion back across the Channel, it saved England 
from embarrassments and perils that might have 
proved serious difficulties in the future. 

But the Maid of France is more than a great 
figure in history : she is a mysterious problem 
m psychology, and as such has begun to interest 
the modern scientist. Out of this new interest 
a bitter quarrel has developed, for the results of 
this scientific study have not been wholly in the 
Maid's favor. 

" She is represented as a martyr, a heroine, a puzzle- 
headed hallucinated lass, a perplexed wanderer in a 
realm of dreams, the unconscious tool of fraudulent 
priests, herself once doubtfully honest, apt to tell great 
palpable myths to her own glorification, never a leader in 
war, but only a kind of mascotte, a " little saint," and a 
heguine in breeches." 

And now comes Mr. Andrew Lang, the 
poet-philosopher of Scotland, who is also both 
an historian and a scientist, with a book in 
defence of the remarkable Maid. That such a 
work of apology should come from Scotland 
seems exceedingly appropriate ; for the Scots, 
the author tells us, " did not buy or sell, or try, 
or condemn, or persecute, or burn, or — most 
shameful of all — bear witness against and 
desert the Maid. The Scots stood for her 
always, with pen as with sword." Mr. Lang's 
defence, however, is not a barrister's plea, but a 
thorough, sympathetic study of Jeannes career, 
the results of which disprove all the assertions 
of the hostile critics. 

Biography is frequently dull reading. The 
author's sense of duty too often leads him to 
include trivial matters with the really important 
ones, and the result is an inartistic product. But 
in the present case no such criticism applies. 
Mr. Lang's book is a work of great interest ; 
every page is alive with the zeal and the energy 
of the brilliant biographer. Critics may not 
always approve of Mr. Langs literary methods, 
but they rarely accuse him of being dull. It 
might be said with truth that the present study 
does not display the calm judicious temper that 
the historian ought to possess. Indeed, the author 
seems inclined toward Herr Treitschke's belief 
that history should be written in anger. In 
speaking of the trial of the Maid at Rouen, he 
characterizes the leading judges and assessors in 
the following terms : 

" De la Fontaine, Le Maitre, Midi, and Feuillet were 
the examiners who sought their own damnation on this 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



261 



day. Who are we that we should judge them, crea- 
tures as they were, full of terror, of superstition, and 
of hatred; with brows of brass and brains of lead; scien- 
tific, too, as the men of their time reckoned science." 

This is not in the style of the doctor's disserta- 
tion, but it is far more effective ; and, from a 
writer who is a member of so many literary 
guilds, we cannot expect a dispassionate treat- 
ment throughout, especially when the theme is 
so dramatic as is the life and death of Jeanne 
d'Arc. 

No doubt the parts of Mr. Lang's work that 
will attract the most attention are his discussions 
and analyses of the various problems that make 
up such a large part of the Maid's history. Some 
of these are satisfactorily treated ; but a suffi- 
cient number remain unsolved to call forth many 
future studies. In a review it is, of course, 
impossible to follow out the author's arguments ; 
the leading conclusions alone can be stated. 

First and greatest of the problems is that 
of the " voices " and the visions. These matters 
are discussed in various sections of the narrative, 
and are also made the subject of an appendix. 
" Nobody now asserts that her psychological 
experiences were feigned by her ; nobody denies 
that she had the experiences ; nobody ascribes 
them, like the learned of Paris University, to 
' Satan, Belial, and Behemoth.' " Mr. Lang, 
therefore, concludes that so far as Jeanne was 
concerned the " voices " were real ; but what 
was their nature ? In his discussions he examines 
and rejects various explanations recently pro- 
posed hj scientific minds. Hysteria, underde- 
velopment, or nervous disorders of various sorts 
have been suggested ; but the evidence points 
to none of these ; Jeanne appears in every other 
respect to have been sane and normal. The 
attempt to classify Jeanne's experiences with 
those of ecstatics also seems to have failed ; she 
is never known to have been subject to trances ; 
when the voices came to her and spoke to her, 
she still remained perfectly conscious of every- 
thing about her ; her understanding of the com- 
mon things of life was not in the least disturbed. 
Mr. Lang apparently subscribes to the opinion 
that the " voices " were expressions of uncon- 
scious thinking (whatever that may be). He 
confuses the matter somewhat in one of his clos- 
ing sentences : " I incline to think that in a sense 
not easily defined Jeanne was 'inspired,' and I 
am convinced that she was a person of the high- 
est genius, of the noblest character." But 
inspired is a broad and vague term that gives 
little definite information. The theory that the 
" voices " were the Maid's own unconscious 



thoughts which finally became so definite and so 
real as to lead her to think that they came from 
the outside is also rather xmsatisfactory. How 
did the young illiterate peasant girl in distant 
Lorraine come to have such remarkable uncon- 
scious thoughts? Whence did she obtain her 
information ? And what shall we say of her 
foreknowledge of events ? For we have evidence 
that in a few instances she possessed prophetic 
knowledge. She predicted in April, 1429, that 
she would be wounded by an arrow, but not 
fatally ; she was actually wounded on May 7. 
She also had foreknowledge of her capture ; but 
this for obvious reasons she kept secret. 

Mr. Lang also discusses the question of the 
Maid's military abilities. His reply to the 
critics who deny that Jeanne was more than an 
influence for patriotism is a summary of her 
military record. 

" A girl understood, and a girl employed (so profes- 
sional students of strategy and tactics declare), the 
essential ideas of the military art; namely, to concen- 
trate quickly, to strike swiftly, to strike hard, to strike 
at vital points, and, despising vain noisy skirmishes and 
' valiances,' to fight with invincible tenacity of purpose. 
• . . She possessed what, in a Napoleon, a Marlborough, 
a Kellermann at Alba de Tormes (1809), would be 
reckoned the insight of genius. 

At the same time the author admits that the 
greatest service of the Maid lay along inspira- 
tional lines. What France just then needed 
was patriotism, courage, and confidence. 

Historical writers usually tell us that Jeanne 
understood her mission as including two achieve- 
ments only : the relief of Orleans and the 
coronation of the Dauphin at Rheims. The 
inference is that her subsequent campaign was 
carried on in defiance of the " voices " and 
against her own wishes. For these statements 
Mr. Lang finds no warrant. The reluctant ones 
were the king and his advisers ; Jeanne was 
eager to continue the warfare with a view to 
seizing Paris. The campaign failed, but the 
failure is not to be charged to the Maid's 
account — she displayed the same courage as 
earlier ; it was the inevitable result of cowardice 
and divided councils at court. Even after her 
capture she seems to have been anxious to con- 
tinue fighting the English ; " could she have 
escaped from prison at any time in 1431, she 
would have taken up arms again." 

The Maid had a presentiment that her career 
would not be long ; she knew that she " would 
last but a year or little more." The relief of 
Orleans began in May, 1429 ; Jeanne was cap- 
tured at Compi^gne, May 23, 1530. January 
3, 1431, she was turned over to Cauchon, bishop 



262 



THE DIAL 



[April 16, 



of Beauvais, for trial ; on May 30 she was 
burned. Whether the Maid had a fair trial is 
a question that has been " angrily debated." 
Some historians have argued that, as the laws 
and customs were in the fifteenth century, the 
judges were not unfair. Mr. Lang holds to a 
different view : in cases where the accused were 
believed to have been in the service of the evil 
powers, the aim was not to find out the truth 
but to convict ; " no person in the situation of 
Jeanne, a feared and hated captive in hostile 
hands, — no man accused of high treason or of 
witchcraft, — had anywhere, for centuries after 
1431, the slightest chance of being fairly tried." 
And the record of the trial as given in the clos- 
ing chapters of Mr. Lang's biography is not 
such as to convict the judges of the least desire 
to be fair and just. 

A difficult problem in connection with the 
trial is that of Jeanne's abjuration. About a 
week before the final tragedy, she was induced 
to submit to the commands of the church and 
to denounce her " saints " as spirits of evil ; at 
least such is the accepted account. We have a 
document of some length in which the Maid 
goes to the full extent of abjuration and sub- 
mission. This document the author, on appar- 
ently good grounds, calls into question. But 
even if this particular document is a forgery or a 
falsification of the record, it seems probable that 
at this time Jeanne's heroism suffered a momen- 
tary eclipse. 

"The question is regarded as important, for, it is 
argued, if Jeanne pronounced the words of the long 
form of abjuration, she perjured herself, and cannot be 
regarded as a person of ' heroic ' and saintly virtue. 
Considering her circumstances, her long sufferings, the 
mental confusion caused by the tumult; the promises 
of escape from the infamous company of base English 
grooms; and the terror of the fire, I cannot regard her, 
— even if she recited and set her mark to the long abju- 
ration, — as less ' heroic ' than St. Peter was when he 
thrice denied his Lord. It is cruel, it is inhuman, to 
blame the girl for not soaring above the apostolic 
heroism of the fiery Galilean; for being, at one brief 
moment, less noble than herself." 

Mr. Lang has produced a useful and interest- 
ing biography, but it cannot be regarded as final. 
Until the borderlands of thought have been more 
thoroughly explored, the career of the Maid will 
remain a mystery. The nature of the evidence 
is also such as to make the matter of interpreta- 
tion an extremely difficult task: it is largely 
made up of the records of two trials, the first 
for the purpose of condemnation (1431), and the 
second (twenty years later) for the purpose of 
rehabilitation. While the author has apparently 
written for the general reader, he has not for- 



gotten the needs of the serious student : the work 
is provided with a fair index, and all the import- 
ant statements are fortified with references to 
the authorities used. The notes are, however, 
placed at the close of the volume instead of at 
the foot of the pages. The illustrations consist 
of two pictures of the Maid (miniatures from 
the close of the fifteenth century), a portrait of 
Charles VIL, and three maps. 

Laurence M. Larson. 



Kkcent Fiction.* 



" This is a novel, not a treatise," says Mr. Wells 
midway in " Tono-Bungay," but we have doubts. 
Nevertheless we persevere, and are rewarded by 
witnessing the play of an active and original mind 
about most of the problems, individual and collective, 
with which modern man is confronted. It would be 
vain to expect Mr. Wells to keep his social philos- 
ophy out of a novel, or his technical scientific knowl- 
edge, or his peculiarly mean conception of average 
humanity. He seems to work upon the theory that 
the best way to arouse man to a sense of what he 
might become is to make a merciless exposure of 
what he actually is, studied in a selection of the 
most despicable instances. This negative method 
of exalting an idealism may be effective when em- 
ployed by such indignant spirits as Swift and Ibsen, 
but when it is developed in the vein of comedy nearly 
always worked by Mr. Wells, it becomes almost 
futile for any higher purpose than that of entertain- 
ment. " Tono-Bungay " has many longueurs^ but 
despite them is a vastly entertaining novel. It is 
the story of a great fortune erected upon a founda- 
tion of humbug, for its title is the name of the patent 
medicine which raises its exploiter from poverty to 
aflBuence. That Napoleonic charlatan reminds us 
not a little of the elder Vance in Mr. De Morgan's 
novel, but with just the difference that distinguishes 
caricature from character-drawing. The story is 
told by his nephew, who shares in the fortune, and 
just escapes discredit in its collapse. As autobi- 
ography, it is largely concerned with the latter's love 
affairs. There are three of them, the first the sort 

♦Tono-Bungay. By H.Q. Wells. New York: Duffield&Co. 

Septimus. By William J. Locke. New York: The John 
Lane Co. 

The Point of Honor. A Military Tale. By Joseph C!onrad. 
New York: The McClure Co. 

Joan of Gakioch. By Albert Kinross. New York: The 
Macmillan Co. 

Mibage. By E. Temple Thurston. New York : Dodd, Mead 
&Co. 

LoRiMER OF THE NORTHWEST. By Harold Bindloss. New 
York: The Frederick A. Stokes Co. 

The Fashionable Adventures of Joshua Craig. By David 
Graham Phillips. New York : D. Appleton «fc Co. 

54— 40 OR Fight. By Emerson Hough. Indianapolis: The 
Bobbs-Merrill Co. 

The King of Arcadia. By Francis Lynde. New York: 
Charles Scribner's Sons. 

The Spell. By William Dana Orcutt. New York : Harper 
& Brothers. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



263 



of mistake that unthinking youth frequently makes, 
the second distinctly disreputable, and the third an 
affair that ends with the rocket-like fall of the Tono- 
Bungay enterprise. The author tries very hard to 
make this third affair a matter of real passion and 
appeal to sympathy, but is imperfectly successful. 
A hero of fiction must have heroic qualities some- 
where latent within him, and such qualities are not 
here discernible. There is good comedy in the book, 
but nothing that strikes deeper, unless we look for 
it in the pages that are frankly philosophical, and 
have nothing to do with the action. 

Curiously enough, Mr. William J. Locke's " Sep- 
timus " is also in large measure the story of a patent 
medicine. Clem Sypher, however, is unlike the 
inventor of Tono-Bungay in that the former believes 
in his Cure, and in its divine mission of healing the 
skins of all mankind. There is something almost 
tragic in his dejection when he is informed by a man 
of science, in the plainest of language, that it is a 
device of quackery, and at the same time discovers 
that it is without efficacy when applied to the 
blistered heel of its own inventor. Clem is a good 
deal of a man, however, and we are not deeply per- 
turbed when the heroine — magnificent creatui'e 
though she be — finally rewards his devotion, and 
accepts the responsibilities of her sex. As for Sep- 
timus, who also loves her in dumb ecstasy, we feel 
that reality has shaped for him a better life than that 
of his dreams when his fortunes are at last annexed 
to those of the heroine's less imposing but more 
domestic sister. Septimus is an inventor also, but 
of machines, not medicines. He is a shy creature, 
whose simple goodness wins our affection, and whose 
unconsciously humorous observations upon all sorts 
of subjects keep us in a cheerful mood. There is 
not much story in this entertaining book, nor is there 
anything like reality of human characterization, but 
there is satirical wit in abundance and there is the 
most delicious whimsicality. The satisfaction which 
we get from this, as from Mr. Locke's other recent 
novels, is intellectual rather than emotional, and is 
of the keenest sort. Something less successful, on 
the whole, than " The Morals of Marcus Ordeyne " 
and "The Beloved Vagabond," this new book is 
nevertheless a delightful affair, and it would be 
ungrateful to place much stress upon the slight feel- 
ing of disappointment that comes from a comparison 
with its predecessors. 

Mr. Conrad works upon a small canvas in " The 
Point of Honor," and the product more than justifies 
the self-imposed limitation. His longer books are 
often hard to read because of their diffuseness and 
over-indulgence in analysis, but this one offers no 
such impediment to the reader's sustained satisfac- 
tion. It is a tale of the Napoleonic wars, which, 
however, form only a background for the single 
personal relation which is the substance of the 
narrative. Two minor French officers get into a 
quarrel over a trivial matter, and a duel results. 
During the following years, their paths diverge and 
come together many times, and each time of renewed 



contact sees a renewal of the quarrel, and another 
duel. They advance in grade and become generals, 
then, after the Restoration, they live on as grizzled 
veterans, and still the feud persists. It has become 
a tradition in military circles, although no one seems 
to know the fons et origo of all this animosity. The 
original quarrel, forced by a hot-headed and envious 
soldier upon his generous rival, is kept alive by the 
unreasonable attitude of the former, and the latter, 
despite his abhorrence of the situation, finds a point 
of honor in accepting the challenges that come from 
year to year. In their last duel, however, the chal- 
lenger is at his rival's mercy, and his life is forfeit 
according to the code. He is spared under these 
humiliating conditions, and for the rest of his life 
can do nothing more serious than vent his spleen by 
grumbling. Meanwhile, as a disgraced Bonapartist, 
he is in sore straits, but his rival finds a way of 
supporting him without his suspecting the source of 
supply. The story is crisply told, with much acute 
comment and humorous observation. It is in reality 
a grave comedy of cross-purposes keyed to a certain 
moderate pitch of dramatic intensity which is hardly 
changed from beginning to end. 

A variant from the usual type of the sensational 
fiction which deals with things Russian is offered in 
" Joan of Garioch," by Mr. Albert Kinross. Instead 
of the old-fashioned tale of nihilist conspiracies and 
Siberian horrors we have an up-to-date story of the 
recent Russian revolution, with the Baltic provinces, 
and especially Rig^, for the scene of its action. The 
hero is an English soldier who returns from South 
Africa to learn that his betrothed has married a 
mysterious foreigner and disappeared. It seems that 
her father has been involved in a speculative enter- 
prise that has wrecked his fortune and threatened 
his honor, and that the heroine has given herself as 
a sacrifice to the man who has offered to save her 
father's reputation by paying his debts. We call 
her the heroine in default of a better, but she hardly 
appears during the whole course of the narrative, 
which is chiefly concerned with the hero's efforts to 
discover her hiding-place. For the name given by 
her husband, the Count de Jarnac, is a fictitious one, 
and the address which he has left upon his departure 
from England is a blind. In fact, he is a Russian 
of high standing, and when he learns that the lover 
is in hot pursuit, he resorts to all sorts of villainous 
devices for the deceiving and undoing of his rival. 
This is the framework of a very pretty story of wild 
adventure and hairbreadth escape, which naturally 
ends with the death of the villain and the union of 
the faithful lovers. Although the love-interest is 
kept well in the background, there are all sorts of 
romantic compensations for this defect, and the inter- 
est of the story does not flag in a single chapter. 

" Mirage," by Mr. E. Temple Thurston, is a ten- 
der and pathetic story of belated love and unselfish 
renunciation. The Vicomte du Guesclin has lost 
his fortune, gone into English exile, and is eating 
his heart out in a London lodging-house. An unex- 
pected legacy gives him a simple coxxntry pied-h-terre 



264 



THE DIAL 



[April 16, 



(also in England), and he finds among his neighbors 
a young French girl whose mother had been the love 
of his youth. In his association with this girl, both 
youth and love are renewed, and when the prospect 
of restored fortune opens before him, he seeks to 
make his dream a reality, and wins the girl's con- 
sent to become his wife. It is affection rather than 
love that she has to give him, but for a time he is 
persuaded that it is the deeper sentiment. Then 
the castle in Spain crumbles, for fortune again eludes 
him, and the girl's heart is instinctively given to a 
young Englishman who appears opportunely (or 
inopportunely) upon the scene at the critical mo- 
ment. The Vicomte is too fine a gentleman to 
permit her to make the sacrifice which she is yet 
willing to make, and the light goes out of his life. 
It is a delicate and charming tale, with soft lights 
and subtle characterizations. This theme of the St. 
Martin's summer of love has been used many times 
in fiction, but rarely ( by English writers) to equally 
artistic effect. There is also a vein of happy humor 
running through the pages, which notably relieves 
the burden of their essential pathos. 

The story of " Lorimer of the Northwest " is now 
much more than a twice-told tale, for it already 
exists in more than half a dozen replicas. But as 
long as Mr. Bindloss is able to com'pose equally 
interesting variations upon the theme his books will 
have enough novelty to continue attractive. The 
story, in substance, is that of the English settler in 
the Canadian Northwest, of his struggle to wrest a 
living from the soil, of his bitter reverses and des- 
perate plights, of his eventual triumph over difficult 
conditions, and of his winning of the woman upon 
whom his heart is set. It is essentially one of the 
best of all stories, and both hero and heroine are of 
types that are perennially interesting because they 
are both strong and wholesome. The present variant 
of the story begins in England, but soon the char- 
acters are all transplanted oversea, and the plot 
enters upon its development. The hero has to con- 
tend, not only with the soil and the elements, but 
also with various forms of human malice and rascal- 
ity, and nothing but pluck and resourcefulness save 
him from going under. Thus the reader is kept in 
a constant state of tension, which is not disagreeable 
because his previous experience with the author 
assures him that there will be a bonanza harvest in 
the end, or a gold mine, or a fat contract, and that 
the hero's honest determination will have its due 
reward, both material and sentimental. In his 
dealings with nature, as exhibited in that part of 
America which he has made his own, it seems to us 
that Mr. Bindloss is steadily growing in fineness of 
observation and power of description. 

It is impossible to take seriously such a novel as 
"The Fashionable Adventures of Joshua Craig." 
The straining for sensational effect and the deter- 
mination of the author to be startling at any cost 
are so obvious that the total result is repellent, and 
this quite apart from the commonness of the style 
and the unredeemed vulgarity of the treatment. Is 



it possible that Mr. Phillips thinks his politician- 
hero an admirable person in any aspect of his char- 
acter or in any sense of the word? A boor through 
and through, without any conception of the gracious 
side of life, he comes from the West into the political 
life of the capital, forces his way to high office by 
making himself a holy terror, elbows his way into 
polite society and acts like a bull in a china-shop, 
and finally captures a patrician wife by the primitive 
methods of the cave-dweller. We say "patrician," 
because Mr. Phillips clearly thinks that he is describ- 
ing the woman as of that type. This is the most 
amusing of all his miscalculations, for his heroine is 
also essentially a vulgarian, and the refinements with 
which he tricks her out do not long deceive us. Con- 
sidering the story as an extravaganza, it is rather 
good fun to follow the progress of the forceful Josh, 
as he swings his club, and bowls over such lay 
figures of politicians and sybarites and dowagers as 
come within its destructive range. In the end, he 
refuses a position in the Cabinet, and drags his wife 
off to Minnesota, which is probably a good place in 
which to leave this precious pair. 

Mr. Emerson Hough, in his " 54-40 or Fight," 
has become an adept in the " big bow-wow " style. 
This historical novel of two generations ago is simply 
reeking with the kind of patriotic sentiment that 
exuded from our old-time spokesmen of manifest 
destiny, whose mouthings were a mixture of blatant 
assertiveness, provincial prejudice, and lofty scorn 
of effete old-world examples. It tells of the period 
of our history when people of heated imaginations 
thought that England was intriguing with Mexico 
to bar our progress toward the Rio Grande, and was 
about to make war upon us for the possession of the 
Oregon country. The scene is laid first in Wash- 
ington, afterwards in the Northwest. The figure 
of Calhoun dominates the book, although a more 
youthful hero of the conventional sort is provided 
by his private secretary and trusted agent. Spice 
is added to the romance by the figure of an Austrian 
baroness, supposed to be in the pay of England, who 
flits from scene to scene, making unexpected appear- 
ances when needed. Respect for Calhoun's demo- 
cratic simplicity and a sentimental attachment to his 
dashing young secretary finally win her to the 
American cause, and she becomes the chief instru- 
ment in effecting the boundary compromise. This 
success of petticoat diplomacy is unrecorded in his- 
tory, but it makes pretty material for Mr. Hough's 
romantic purposes. The story has another heroine, 
of domestic origin, evidently intended for the hero 
after he has closed the chapter of his philanderings 
with the foreign adventuress, and we leave him in her 
possession when all misunderstandings are cleared 
away in the last chapter. 

" The King of Arcadia," by Mr. Francis Lynde, 
is a thrilling modern romance dealing with a Colo- 
rado feud. The quarrel results from the efforts of 
an irrigation company to construct works that will 
flood the lands and make useless the residence of a 
ranchman — the fine old Southern gentleman who is 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



265» 



known as the King of Arcadia. The successive 
engineers engaged for the work all come to mys- 
terious or violent ends, and all sorts of suspicious 
accidents delay its progress. It seems as if the 
" King " were responsible for all these villainies, 
but we learn in the end that they are chargeable to 
a too zealous Mexican herdsman in his employ. The 
hero of this tale is the new engineer, who, undaunted 
by the fate of his predecessors, accepts the commis- 
sion, and does his best to make good. The heroine 
is the " King's " daughter, who tries to be loyal to 
both lover and father, although for a time she also 
suspects the latter of criminal activities, charitably 
believing them to be the result of a disordered mind. 
After the reader has had his surfeit of explosions 
and land-slides and floods and sudden deaths, he ends 
in a love-feast, with explanations and reconciliations, 
while idyllic peace reigns over the whole situation. 
It all makes an entertaining, good-humored, and per- 
fectly superficial story, well supplied with dramatic 
incident, and told, for the most part, in a form of 
dialogue too smart to bear much relation to ordinary 
human speech. 

" The Spell " of Mr. William Dana Orcutt's novel 
is that cast by the study of the Italian Renaissance 
upon the life of a young American scholar in Flor- 
ence. Just happily married, he has brought his 
wife to Italy, in order that he may combine intel- 
lectual delights with those of the honeymoon. Work- 
ing in the Laurentian library under the guidance of 
a famous Italian scholar whose identity is hardly 
concealed, he soon becomes so absorbed in his re- 
searches that his wife quite properly feels herself 
neglected. To make matters worse, the young 
woman whom she has invited to become a guest at 
their villa shares his interests and becomes the daily 
companion of his labors. Neither the man nor his 
companion realize the wrong they are doing, so 
interested do they become in their joint studies, so 
compelling is the spell of the old humanism which 
they are engaged in making their intellectual pos- 
session. Husband and wife at last stand upon the 
verge of permanent estrangement, when a fortunate 
automobile accident saves the situation by laying 
him up for some weeks, and bringing him to a 
wholesome realization of his unconscious neglect of 
an obvious duty. The spell is thus broken, and 
reality resumes the place of the dream that has 
usurped it. The novel is well written, and exhibits 
both artistic feeling and delicate analytical power ; 
its chief fault is that it lacks sufficient substance for 
a novel of its length. William Morton Payne. 



Professor Brander Matthews is preparing for 
Houghton MifElin Co. a book on the Drama, which will 
give in brief compass the fundamental facts needed by 
any student who is studying the drama and dramatic 
literature. This book will be uniform in size with 
Professor Perry's "Study of Prose Fiction," and will 
deal with the subject of the drama in the same manner 
in which Professor Perry deals with fiction. 



Briefs on New Books 



^ „ . That the problems presented m Mr. 

Colleges as V, -r.. i , i 

education Clarence F. Birdseye s volume on 

factories. "The Reorganisation of our Col- 

leges" (Baker & Taylor Co.), and the aggressive 
mode of their presentation, will stimulate discussion, 
seems a consummation both likely and desirable.. 
Much of the emphasis of the book is timely, and 
some of it commendable. The urgent need of rais- 
ing the social and moral standards and the general 
educational influences of the student's environment ; , 
the need of restoring somehow the direct influence, 
of the teacher and the placing of the calling in its 
proper professional status ; the checking of the am- 
bitions of the colleges for numbers, and their showy 
forms of attaining publicity ; a more simple and 
effective supervision of the machinery of the college 
" plant," — in these and similar topics there is com- 
mon ground for the interchange of views and sug- 
gestions. But when so much is conceded, every 
discerning critic of educational processes who has 
the least appreciation of the conditions under which 
the fruits of the tree mature, must protest emphati- 
cally against the temper and trend of this ambitious' 
volume. We are told repeatedly and variously that 
the college is a factory — when it is not a depart- 
ment store ; that the methods of the great industries 
and of the trusts are the only ones that can save the 
situation ; that a separate department of administra- 
tion is what colleges need to save their souls and those 
of the " problem-solvers " and '* citizen-thinkers " 
committed to their charge. There is waste in the 
plant (doubtless there is), and to discover it each 
student should be sent through the mill with a cost 
and production slip following him and telling in the 
end what he is worth. The analogy to the ends 
and means of a great business house is believed in 
to the logical finish. It is well that someone has' 
the courage to carry this view to its extreme. But 
the position is more sad than ridiculous, and may 
become serious. When the volume reaches the hands 
of our foreign critics, some vigorous pronouncements 
may be expected ; and there is some consolation in 
the thought that the spirit of Matthew Arnold is 
beyond the reach of such offence. Not once in the 
course of four hundred pages is there a bit of proof 
that the conditions complained of are really in any 
way connected with the proposed remedy. The 
analogy is never under suspicion, though the vision 
is obstructed by motes and beams of all sorts and 
sizes. Surely it may be urged with greater force' 
that the evils in question are due to just so much' 
emphasis of administration and the business view 
as has already crept into our colleges ; that what we 
need is to save ourselves from any more of it, and 
to resist to the last the encroachments under way. 
The total aim and spirit and method of the college 
is foreign to that of the business world ; and that is 
just why we cherish it. It is easy for Mr. Birdseye 
and his followers to say that he wants culture and 



266 



THE DIAL 



[April 16, 



effective teaching and personality. K he really does, 
he must sacrifice everything to the spirit out of which 
such things grow; and the spirit that gives such 
things life is to the spirit that must follow in the 
wake of his reorganized business-dominated college 
as May to December. The first requisite in the 
handling of intellectual interests is some appreciation 
of the forces that produce them and make their pur- 
suit worth while. To enter the arena of discussion 
without these is to raise the fundamental issue 
whether the end in view is worth the tremendous 
cost. For the reconstructed college — or the present 
college in the view of the " reconstructionists " — 
is logically not worth maintaining. Let the factories, 
the railroads, the banks, and the trusts, educate the 
youth of the land, and do it by business methods ; 
why bring in the college professor ? 

„ , , Although one might infer from the 

Austrian title " Napoleon and the Archduke 

campaigns. Charles," which Mr. F. Loraine Petre 
gives to his volume on the campaign of 1809, that 
it includes a large biographical element, the work is 
primarily an historical discussion of the Ratisbon 
campaign and of the campaign of Essling-Wagram. 
Mr. Petre has drawn new material from the corre- 
spondence in Saski's Campagne de 1809, and from 
the papers of the Archduke Charles. He believes 
that the English reader has had little opportunity 
to correct traditional misapprehensions, which had 
their origin in the efforts of that incomparable ad- 
vertiser, Napoleon himself, to propagate, by bulle- 
tins at the time, and later in his conversations at 
St Helena, an account of his operations which should 
finally be accepted as orthodox. As in his previous 
volumes on the campaigns of 1806 and 1807, the 
author begins with a full account of the organization 
and value of the two armies. He finds the strategy 
of the Ratisbon campaign over-praised, really at 
fault on more than one occasion, and markedly 
below the standard set by the compaign of 1806. 
He thinks Napoleon was influenced by a mistaken 
idea that Vienna was his true objective, rather than 
the Archduke's army wherever it might go. He 
finds evidence that, until after the check at Essling, 
Napoleon underestimated the fighting qualities of 
the Austrians ; and this accounts for the contrast 
between the haste with which he made the first 
crossing of the Danube and the infinite pains with 
which he prepared for the second. One of the 
most curious features of the struggle was the influ- 
ence of the presence in the army of a large number 
of young recruits who should have been called in 
1810, and of half-trained men of previous classes, 
upon the manoeuvres on the field of battle. For 
example, the formation of Macdonald's great column 
at Wagram, composed of thirty battalions in front 
with six in column behind the right and seven behind 
the left, is attributed to this cause. It was expected 
that such soldiers would be more stanch in heavy 
masses ; but this advantage was gained at terrible cost, 
for the column of 8000 was soon reduced to 1500 



effectives. Among the author's descriptions of bat- 
tles, the most successful is the account of Essling. 
With the description of the battles of the Ratisbon 
campaign, which are treated together, the principal 
diflBculty is the complex topography of the country 
over which the operations were carried, a difficulty 
which is not removed by the sketch-maps at the close 
of the volume. (John Lane Co.) 

The pleasures ^^ * «P'"* »* delightful comradeship 
and pains of the with the undistinguished many, who 
toiling millions, ^f^gp ^11 are the salt of the earth, 
Mr. Richard Whiteing has written a score or more 
of short essays and sketches on unpretentious themes, 
and has called his book "Little People" (Cassell). 
More than once he touches feelingly on that baffling 
mystery that has caused such bitterness of despair 
in many a Little Person's breast, the seeming un- 
fairness of fortune, the inequality in the human lot. 
" Why do our efficients," is his unanswerable ques- 
tion, " demand such monstrous and altogether indi- 
gestible helps of the pride of life ? An opera singer 
warbles a few notes into the gramophone — merely 
to clear his throat — and is instantly dowered in 
royalties with a sum equivalent to a substantial an- 
nuity." The keynote to many a life-failure, as the 
world estimates failure, is struck in the account of 
a humble friend who " began life thinking he was 
going to fail in it. . . . He had no sense of exist- 
ence as a struggle ; he dreamed of it as a thing that 
was all, more or less, an exchange of knightly offices 
— foolish child ! He generally muddled matters, 
and could not conceive of himself as clever or any- 
thing of the sort. He thought it would be delight- 
ful just to live, doing nice things and getting your 
share of nice things done in return — exchanging 
good offices, in fact, as the Utopians of the story 
exchanged their washing." In admirable story- 
telling vein is a chapter entitled " As a March Hare," 
describing the comical efforts of a well-meaning man 
to get himself shut up in a mad-house, in order to 
effect the release therefrom of a friend unjustly con- 
fined. On quite Chestertonic principles he at last 
succeeds, not by feigning madness, but by behaving 
with rigid regard to reason. Terseness of phrase 
and vigor of thought mark this book as they do not 
always succeed in marking the author's novels. 
Readers of the latter should not fail to read " Little 
People," if they desire a more intimate acquaintance 
with Mr. Whiteing at his best. 

„ . . , The publication of the several parts of 

Beginnings of , , o- -rrr i.^ t» i.> 

the greatest city the late Sir W alter Besant s magnum, 
in the world. opus,' the " Survey of London," has 
been somewhat erratic. The first volume, appear- 
ing in 1903, soon after the author's death, was his 
"London in the Eighteenth Century." It was 
announced in this volume that the entire work was 
nearly ready for publication at the time of Sir 
Walter's death. Other volumes have appeared at 
intervals, in the following order : " London in the 
Time of the Stuarts," " London in the Time of the 



1909.] 



THE DIAJL 



267 



Tudors," and two volumes on "Mediaeval London." 
Now appears what might naturally be regarded as 
the initial volume of the series, "Early London: 
Pre-Historic, Saxon and Norman "(Macmillan), leav- 
ing a volume on Modern London to appear shortly 
and to complete what its busy author intended 
should be the great work of his life. In the volume 
now before us, Sir Walter's account of Pre-historic 
London is prefaced by a chapter on the geology of 
the site, by Professor T. G. Bonney, F.R.S. This 
is in accordance with Sir Walter's original scheme, 
which was to have certain phases of his exhaustive 
survey prepared by acknowledged experts in those 
special fields. This seems, however, the only in- 
tance in which he availed himself of such assist- 
ance, and the account of the city's growth upon the 
unpromising site which is described in this first 
chapter is in Sir Walter's inimitable style. Paying 
all due attention to the tradition of the founding of 
Troynovant, or Trenovant, in the year 1108 B. c, 
he go^s on to collate all the available testimony 
regarding the earliest settlers and inhabitants of the 
forbidding spot upon which was destined to grow up 
the greatest city in the world, and gives us all that 
can be k»own of Pre-historic London, augmenting his 
account with valuable appendices. The subsequent 
books on Roman, Saxon, and Norman London, 
bringing the survey down to the time of Henry XL, 
are written in a similar style, alike erudite and pop- 
ular, making this volume full of interest to the 
student of topography as well as to the student of 
manners and customs. And this volume will, no 
less than the others, stimulate in whoever may look 
into its pages the same affectionate enthusiasm for 
the London of the remote past which its distin- 
guished author had for the London of every age of 
its history. 

A notable Text-books of embryology are much 

contribution too common to make the appearance 
to biology. ^f ^ jjg^ Qjjg ^g^ gg ^-j^ event of 

particular scientific or literary significance. To 
attract any especial attention, a book of this kind 
must be markedly superior to others in the same 
general category. This requirement is well fulfilled 
by Professor Lillie's recent work, " The Develop- 
ment of the Chick ; an Introduction to Embryology " 
(Holt). It has already taken the foremost place 
among existing accounts of the embryonic develop- 
ment of the chick, that " never failing resource of 
the embryologist." The arrangement of the material 
and the plan of the book are in general much the 
same as in other embryological treatises, and embody 
the conventional ideas regarding the presentation of 
the subject to students. An introduction, dealing 
briefly with certain of the general biological prin- 
ciples on which any study of embryology depends, 
prepares the way for the detailed consideration of 
the course of the developmental processes in the 
chick. The account beg^ins with the formation of 
the egg, and follows this with the detailed descrip- 
tion of the development of the embryo and its organs 



John Pettie, 
Scotch paintef 



day by day up to the time of hatching of the chick. 
All of this ground has of course been covered in 
other books. The superiority of the present work 
lies rather in the manner of treatment than in the 
matter discussed. What impresses one most in going 
through the volume is the thoroughness and pains- 
taking care with which the book has been prepared. 
Practically the whole of the work is based on the 
author's own personal observations. The few minor 
inaccuracies of statement which the reviewer has 
noted have without exception been upon points where 
the author relied on some statement in the literature 
of the subject, rather than upon his own observations. 
The illustrations are nearly all original, and, from 
the standpoint of scientific illustrations, very fine. It 
is with real pleasure that one notes the absence of 
the hackneyed old figures that have done duty in so 
many text-books of embryology. Altogether, the work 
is a very notable contribution to the literature of 
elementary biology. 

"No one will ever write my life," 
said John Pettie ; " it has been much 
too uneventful." Nevertheless, fif- 
teen years after his death, he has found a biographer 
in his nephew. Mr. Martin Hardie, who draws a 
delightful picture of the kindly, generous, tremen- 
dously forceful Scotch artist, and makes up for 
meagreness of biographical incident by fulness of 
descriptive matter about Pettie's paintings. Diligent 
search through the artist's note-books and in exhibi- 
tion and sale catalogues, as well as in correspondence 
or interviews with private owners of his work, has 
resulted in a practically complete catalogue, chron- 
ologically arranged. Mr. Hardie barely remembers 
his artist uncle, but he has had many conversations 
with relatives and friends, as well as access to many 
letters, and from these he has reconstructed Pettie's 
personality with almost the vividness of a first-hand 
portrayal. This is lavishly illustrated by remark- 
ably fine color-plates which go far to substantiate 
Mr. Hardie's claims for his uncle's talent as a 
colorist. Characteristic of Mr. Pettie's indomitable 
perseverance was his resolve to conquer the prob- 
lems of color, which seemed harder for him than 
draughtsmanship. " If other men become colorists 
by working ten hours a day," he declared, " I '11 
work twenty ! " Both as an individual study and 
as a contribution to the history of Scotch art in the 
last century, Mr. Hardie's biography, which is pub- 
lished by the Macmillan Co., is well worth while. 

Duaiismin The lengthening Series of Mr. Paul 

religion and. Elmer More s "Shelburne Essays 
philosophy. (Putnam) is beginning to assume 

proportions that make it not unnatural or unfit to 
compare these searching and scholarly disquisitions 
with the famous " Causeries " of Sainte-Beuve. For 
if he has made choice of any predecessor in the same 
department of literature as his model, the French 
essayist would seem to be the man. There are in 
each the same methodical and thorough working-up 



268 



THE DIAL 



[April 16, 



of the subject chosen, the same effective intermin- 
gling of quotation and critical comment and illustra- 
tive allusion, and the same admirable command of 
the right turn of phrase with which to enforce the 
meaning ; and if the later writer displays somewhat 
less than the Frenchman's acuteness and wit, he on 
the other hand draws upon a wider range of reading 
and thought and observation. His sixth volume, sub- 
titled " Studies of Religious Dualism," takes up a 
half -score of subjects of enduring interest to scholars, 
— the Forest Philosophy of India, the Bhagavad 
Gita, Saint Augustine, Pascal, Sir Thomas Browne, 
Bunyan, Rousseau, Socrates, the Apology, and Plato. 
Three of the essays are now first published, and the 
others have been altered and considerably amplified 
in lifting from periodical to book. The writer is on 
congenial ground in these papers, the irreconcilable 
antinomies of existence presenting for him, as for 
all meditative minds, a fascinating though teasing 
and not over-fruitful subject for thought. A shade 
too much of oriental fatalism and pessimism is 
inclined to color the utterances of him who lingers 
unduly in this boundless domain of unanswered and 
unanswerable inquiry. That the high standard of 
the series is here maintained, if not indeed raised 
even higher, goes almost without saying. Readers 
of the earlier volumes cannot afford to neglect this 
latest. 

„ , ■ , Five short and readable, as well as 

Some colonial i -i i i ■ i • 

characters in scholarly and pamstaking, chapters 
lifelike attitudes, from our colonial history make up 
"The Apprenticeship of Washington, and Other 
Sketches of Significant Colonial Personages " 
(Moffat, Yard & Co.), by George Hodges, D.D., 
D.C.L. Written by a descendant of both the Pil- 
grims and the Puritans, though himself a minister 
of the Church in protest against which his ancestors 
migrated to this country, these sketches have the 
freshness of a rather new point of view, while at the 
same time they show a large-raindedness and fairness 
that must win the approval and sympathy of all 
readers. Besides the title-chapter, there are accounts 
of "The Hanging of Mary Dyer," " The Adventures 
of Captain Myles Standish," "The Education of John 
Harvard," and "The Forefathers of Jamestown." A 
genial and sometimes quietly humorous style makes 
the book excellent reading. In referring to the 
ancient and honored stories of Washington's boy- 
hood, the author is restrained by no reverence for 
Parson Weems's sacred calling from demonstrating 
his untruthfulness. " The talk which goes on between 
the lad [George Washington] and the father," he 
asserts, "is as far removed from reality as the con- 
ferences between Adam and Eve which are reported 
by John Milton." The writer's tone of fairness in 
treating our religious history may be illustrated by 
a single short sentence from the chapter on Mary 
Dyer : " The followers of the Inward Light have 
always been obnoxious to the established order "; he 
understands but does not share "the instinctive irrita- 
tion and enmity of the conservative mind against 



the person who claims to talk with God." Dean 
Hodges has made a valuable, and at the same time 
quite unpretentious, contribution to our historical 
literature. 



Notes. 



What will doubtless prove a book of much importance 
to sociological workers is announced in Dr. Edward T. 
Devine's " Misery and its Causes," to be published by 
the Macmillan Co. in their " American Social Progress 
Series." 

Mrs. Theodosia Garrison, well known through her 
contributions to the magazines, has made a collection of 
her poetical work, which will be published at once by 
Mr. Mitchell Kennerley under the title " The Joy o' Life, 
and Other Poems." 

« The Doll's House " and « Little Eyolf " are the first 
two volumes of " A Players' Ibsen," a new edition of the 
plays of the Norwegian dramatist, which Mr. Henry L 
Mencken is engaged in preparing. Each volume has an 
introduction, a supply of notes, and a brief bibliography. 
The translations are newly made for this edition. 
Messrs. John W. Luce & Co. are the publishers. 

"Nineteenth Century English Prose," edited by 
Messrs. Thomas H. Dickinson and Frederick W. Roe, 
is a recent publication of the American Book Co. It 
gives the text of ten critical essays, with brief introduc- 
tions and a few notes. The essayists represented are 
Hazlitt, Carlyle, Macaulay, Thackeray, Newman, Bage- 
hot. Pater, Stephen, Morley, and Arnold. 

"La Caverne," by M. Ray Nyst (if that is a real 
name), is an imagjinative French tale of primitive man, 
or rather of the man-monkey as he lived, loved, fought, 
and died in the luxuriant forests of tertiary Europe. A 
docimientary introduction, which is essentially an essay 
on the ethnology of the tertiary epoch, precedes the 
story proper, Mr. David Nutt is the English agent for 
this publication. 

" The World's Triumph " is the title of a dramatic 
poem in blank verse which the Lippineotts announce 
for publication early in the present month. It is the 
work of Mr. Louis James Block, a Chicagfo educator and 
author, and is described as a symbolic production, the 
scenes being laid in Modena in the fourteenth century, 
a prose prologue and epilogue connecting the theme 
with modern conditions. 

« The Revelation to the Monk of Evesham Abbey," 
a work which dates from 1196, is done into modem 
English by Mr. Valerian Paget, and published by the 
John McBride Co. It was first printed on the Continent 
in 1482, and a unique copy of that edition is preserved 
in the British Museum. Professor Arber has reprinted 
it in our own time, and now we have a modernized ver- 
sion of this extremely interesting product of the mediae- 
val religious spirit. A similar modernization of More's 
" Utopia " is promised from the same source. 

The Virginia State Library issues its fifth annual 
report in a pamphlet volume of nearly six hundred 
pages, comprising, besides matters ordinarily treated in 
such publications, a list of the year's accessions, a 300- 
page report from the State Archivist, and a report, half 
as long, from the State Bibliographer. The library is 
doing much excellent work, and apparently is none too 
generously supported by the appropriations committee 
of the Virginia legislature. Significant of its variety 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



269 



and scope of usefulness, and illustrating its departure 
from the time-honored routine still observed by some of 
its sister state libraries, is its activity in circulating one 
hundred and thirty-two collections of books under the 
name of travelling libraries and school libraries. 

The bibliography of " State Publications," begun ten 
years ago by Mr, R. R. Bowker, has just been com- 
pleted in the publication of Part IV., comprising The 
Southern States. The wealth of information, — his- 
torical, statistical, descriptive, and scientific, hidden, 
because of imperfect bibliographical record, in the pub- 
lications of the several States qf the American Union, 
is second only to that in the publications of the Gov- 
ernment, which also until recent years had been poorly 
recorded and inadequately known. The present work, 
covering more than one thousand pages, is issued by 
" The Publishers' Weekly," New York. 

" The Letters of Percy Bysshe Shelley," collected and 
edited by Mr. Roger Ingpen, is an important announce- 
ment of Messrs. Charles Scribner's Sons. The collection 
consists of about 450 letters gathered from every avail- 
able source — some of which have only been printed 
privately in a strictly limited issue ; while many have not 
appeared in print before. Indeed, the largest number 
of Shelley letters previously printed in one collection 
amounts only to 127. The letters are printed in chron- 
ological form, are annotated, and fully indexed. The 
illustrations comprise a unique collection of portraits of 
Shelley and his friends, and views of the places where 
he lived, besides facsimiles of his MSS. 



Francis Marion Crawford. 
Francis Marion Crawford died on the evening of 
April 9 in his villa at Sorrento. His death was un- 
timely, for he had not completed his fifty-fifth year. His 
life was spent largely out of doors, and was filled with 
healthy activities. He should have been good for another 
score of years, and this thought is an added grief to the 
host of his friends. He was an American in ancestry 
and spirit, although the greater part of his life was spent 
abroad. Born in Italy in 1854, he got his education 
successively in his native country, the United States, the 
Universities of Cambridge, Karlsruhe, Heidelberg, and 
Rome. This training marked him out for a cosmopolitan, 
and few other American writers have had interests that 
ranged so freely over the whole civilized world. Thrown 
upon his own resources at the age of twenty-four, he 
essayed literary work in India, Italy, and America, and 
in 1882 conceived the happy thought of writing a novel. 
This was " Mr. Isaacs," the first of the long series, and 
its success was immediate and pronounced. His voca- 
tion was now determined, and was pursued with unflag- 
ging industry for the twenty-seven remaining years of 
his life. He wrote more than forty books, two-thirds 
of them novels, and became one of the most popular of 
our writers. The fluency of his pen was in a sense his 
misfortune, for no one can write as much as he did and 
at the same time realize his highest possibilities. His 
books are workmanlike and entertaining, but excessively 
diluted with rather commonplace philosophizing, and 
the best of them fall short of distinction. He was at 
his best in the delineation of Italian life and character, 
and the highest mark of his achievement was probably 
reached in the "Saracinesca" trilogy of novels. He 
also made important studies in Italian history, and the 
books resulting from these studies are almost as read- 
able and entertaining as his books of fiction. 



liisT OF New Books. 

[The following list, containing 74 titles, includes books 
received by Thk Dial since its last issue.] 

BIOGBAFHY AND BEMINISCENCES. 

The liife of Edgrar Allan Poe. By Gteorgre E. Woodberry. In 
2 vols., illus. in photogravure, etc., 8vo. Houghton Mifflin 
Co. $5. net. 

The lifting' of Carlyle. By R. S. Craig. Illus. in photo- 
gravure, large 8vo, pp. 519. John Lane Co. $4. net. 

Walt Whitman. By George Rice Carpenter. 12mo, pp. 176. 
" English Men of Letters Series." Macmillan Co. 75 cts. net. 

Ladles Fair and Frail : Sketches of the Demi-monde During 
the Eighteenth Century. By Horace Bleackley. Illus. in 
photogravure, etc., large 8vo, pp. 328. John Lane Co. |5. net. 

Memoirs of My Life. By Francis Galton, F.R.S. Illus.. 
large 8vo, pp. 339. E. P. Dutton & Co. $3.50 net. 

Jasper Donthlt's Story : The Autobiography of a Pioneer. 
With Introduction by Jenkin Lloyd Jones. With portrait, 
12mo, pp. 225. American Unitarian Association. $1.25 net. 

Apollonius of Tyana : A study of his Life and Times. By F. W. 
Groves Campbell, LL.D., with Introduction by Ernest Old- 
meadow. 12mo, pp. 120. Mitchell Kennerley. $1. net. 

Mr. Cleveland: A Personal Impression. By Jesse Lynch 
Williams. With frontispiece, 12mo, pp. 75. Dodd, Mead & 
Co. 50 cts. net. 

HISTORY. 

Ireland under the Stuarts and during the Interregnuin, 
1603-1660. By Richard Bog well, M. A. In 2 vols., with maps, 
large 8vo. Longmans, Green, & Co. $10.50 net. 

The Oreatness and Decline of Borne. By Guglielmo 
Ferrero. Vol. V.. The Republic of Augustus. 8vo, pp.371. 
G. P. Putnam's Sons. $2.50 net. 

Siena: The Story of a Mediaeval Commune. By Ferdinand 
Schevill. Illus., large 8vo, pp. 433. Charles Scribner's Sons. 
$2.50 net. 

The Bomanoe of American Expansion. By H. Addington 
Bruce. Illus., 8vo. pp. 246. Moffat, Yard & Co. $1.75 net. 

The Story of the Great Lakes. By Edward Channing and 
Marion Florence Lansing. Illus., and with maps, 12mo, 
pp. 398. Macmillan Co. $1.50 net. 

GENEBAL LITEBATUBE. 

Egoists : A Book of Supermen. By James Huneker. With 
frontispiece, 12mo, pp. 372. Charles Scribner's Sons. $1.50 net. 

The British Tar in Fact and Fiction : The Poetry, Pathos, 
and Humour of the Sailor's Life. By Charles Napier Robin- 
son, with Introduction by John Leyland. Illus. in color, 
etc., large 8vo, pp. 520. Harper & Brothers. $4. net. 

Three Plays of Shakespeare. By Algernon Charles Swin- 
burne. 16mo, pp.85. "Library of Living Thought." Harper 
& Brothers. 75 cts. net. 

Post-Auen^stan Poetry from Seneca to Jnvenal. By H. E. 
Butler. Large 8vo. pp. 323. Oxford University Press. $2.90 net. 

A Manual of American Literature. Edited by Theodore 
Stanton, M.A., in collaboration with members of the faculty 
of Cornell University. 8vo, pp. 493. G. P. Putnam's Sons. 
$1.75 net. 

The Bevelation to the Monk of Evesham Abbey in the 
Year of Our Lord Eleven Hundred Ninety-Six, Concerning 
the Places of Purgatory and Paradise. Rendered into mod- 
ern English by Valerian Paget. 12mo,pp.319. JohnMcBride 
Co. $1.50 net. 

Culture by Self-help in a Literary, an Academic, or an Ora- 
torical Career. By Robert Waters. 12mo, pp. 369. Dodd, 
Mead & Co. $1.20 net. 

Questions at Issue in Our English Speech. By Edwin W. 
Bowen, Ph.D. 12mo, pp. 154. Broadway Publishing Co. $1. 

Abraham Lincoln and the London Punch: Cartoons, Com- 
ments and Poems, Published in the London Charivari 
1861-1865. Edited by William 8. Walsh. Illus., 12mo, pp. 113. 
Moffat, Yard & Co. $1. net. 

Chapters on Spanish Literature. By James Fitzmaurice- 
Kelly. 8vo, pp. 259. London : Archibald Constable & Co. 

The Delicious Vice (Second Series): By Young E. Allison. 
16mo, pp. 60. Cleveland : Privately printed. 55 cts. net. 

DBAMA AND VEBSE. 
The Blue Bird : A Fairy Play in Five Acts. By Maurice 
Maeterlinck ; trans, by Alexander Teixeira de Mattos. 
12mo. pp. 241, Dodd, Mead & Co. $1,20 net 



2T0 



THE DIAJ. 



[AprU 16, 



A Branch of May. By Lizette Woodworth Reese. 16mo, 

pp.42. "Lyric Garland Series." Portland, Maine: Thomas 

B. Mosher. 50 cts. net. 
Towards the LiRht : A Mystic Poem. By Princess Karadja. 

12mo, pp. 94. Dodd. Mead & Co. 60cts.net. 
The lione Trail at Thirty. By Francis Gorham. 8vo, pp. 40. 

Boston : Black Lion Publishers. 

NEW EDITIONS OF STANDARD LITERATURE. 

The Essayes of Hiohael Lord of Montaigrne. Done into 
English by John Florio; with Introduction by Thomas 
Seccombe. In 3 vols., with photogrravure portraits, 8vo, 
uncut. E. P. Button & Co. $10. net. 

The Poetical Works of John Dryden, Cambridge edition. 
Edited by George R. Noyes. With portrait and vignette in 
photogravure, 8vo, pp 1054. Houghton MifiSin Co. $3. 

Thais. By Anatole France ; translated by Robert B. Douglas. 
Large 8vo, pp. 234. John Lane Co. $2. 

Life and Letters of Lord Maoanlay. By Sir George Otto 
Trevelyan. Enlarged and complete edition, including Ma- 
caulay's marginal notes ; with frontispiece, 12mo. Harper & 
Brothers. $2. 

FICTION. 
The Chippendales. By Robert Grant. 12mo, pp. 602. Charles 

Scribner's Sons. |1.50. 
With the Night Mail : A Story of 2000 a. d. (Together with 

Extracts from the Contemporary Magazine in Which It 

Appeared). By Rudyard Kipling; illus. in color by Frank 

X. Leyendecker and H.Reuterdahl. 12mo. pp. 77. Double- 
day. Page & Co. II. net. 
Special Messenger. By Robert W. Chambers. Illus., 12mo, 

pp. 260. D. Appleton & Co. tl.50. 
Kingsmead. By Bettina von Hutten. With frontispiece in 

color, 12mo, pp. 329. Dodd. Mead & Co. tl.50. 
Fame's Pathway: ARomanceof aG«nius. By H. C. Chatfield- 

Taylor. Illus. in tint, 12mo, pp. 341. New York: Duffield 

&Co. $1.50. 
The Hand on the Latch. By Mary Cholmondeley. With 

frontispiece, 12mo, pp. 126. Dodd, Mead & Co. $1.25. 
The Royal End : A Romance. By Henry Harland. 12mo, 

pp. 349. Dodd, Mead & Co. $1.50. 
The Bronze Bell. By Louis Joseph Vance. Illus. in color, 

12mo, pp. 361. Dodd, Mead & Co. $1.60. 
Katrine : A Novel. By Elinor Macartney Lane. With frontis- 
piece in tint. 12mo, pp. 315. Harper & Brothers. $1.60. 
The Hands of Compulsion. By Amelia E. Barr. With fron- 
tispiece, 12mo, pp. 319. Dodd, Mead & Co. $1.50. 
The Planter : A Novel. By Herman Whitaker. With frontis- 
piece, 12mo, pp. 536. Harper & Brothers. $1.50. 
The Wiles of Sexton Maginnis. By Maurice Francis Egan. 

Illus.. 12mo, pp. 380. Century Co. $1.50. 
The Girl and the Bill. By Bannister Merwin ; illus. in color 

by Harrison Fisher and the Kinneys. 12mo, pp. 370. Dodd, 

Mead & Co. $1.50. 
The Lady of the D3mamos. By Adele Marie Shaw and 

Carmelita Beck with. 12mo, pp. 310. Henry Holt & Co. $1.60. 
Through Welsh Doorways. By Jeannette Marks ; illus. in 

color by Anna Whelan Betts. 12mo, pp. 245. Houghton 

Mifflin Co. $1.10 net. 
The Landlubbers. By Gertrude King. Illus. in color, 12mo, 

pp. 272. Doubleday, Page and Co. $1.50. 
The Music Master. By Charles Klein; novelized from the 

play as produced by David Belasco. Illus. in color, 12mo, 

pp. 341. Dodd, Mead & Co. $1.50. 
Wallace Rhodes. By Norah Davis. 12mo, pp. 335. Harper 

& Brothers. $1.50. 
The Chrjrsalis. By Harold Morton Kramer. Illus., l2mo, 

pp. 419. Lothrop, Lee & Shepard Co. $1.50. 
Partners Three. By Victor Mapes. 12mo, pp. 258. Frederick 

A. Stokes Co. $1.25. 
The Gipsy Count. By May Wynne. With frontispiece in 

color, 12mo, pp. 322. John McBride Co. $1.50. 
Servitude. By Irene Osgood. 12mo, pp. 421. Dana Estes & 

Co. $1.50. 
The Outcast Manufacturers. By Charles Fort. 12mo, 

pp.328. New York: B.W, Dodge* Co. $1.50. 
Old Lady Number 31. By Louise Forsslund. l6mo. pp. 275. 

Century Co. $1. 
On the Road to Arden. By Margaret Morse. Illus. in tint, 

12mo, pp. 252. Houghton Mifflin Co. $1. net. 
The Diary of a Show-Girl. By Grace Luce Irwin. Illus., 

16mo, pp. 177. Moffat. Yard & Co. $1. 



TRAVEL AND DESCRIPTION. 

The East End of Europe : The Report of an Unofficial Mission 
to the European Provinces of Turkey on the Eve of the Rev- 
olution. By Allen Upward; with preface by Sir Edward 
Fitzgerald Law. Illus., large 8vo, pp. 368. E. P. Dutton & 
Co. $4. net. 

The Empire of the East : A Simple Account of Japan. As It 
Was, Is, and Will be. By H. B. Montgomery. Illus. in color, 
etc., large 8vo, pp. 303. A. C. McClurg & Co. $2.50 net. 

Mexican Trails : A Record of Travel in Mexico, 1904-07, and a 
glimpse at the Life of the Mexican Indian . By Stanton Davis 
Kirkham. Illu8..8vo, pp. 293. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $1.75 net. 

England and the English from an American Point of 
View. By Price Collier. 8vo, pp. 434. Charles Scribner's 
Sons. $1.60 net. 

Spain of To-Day from Within. By Manuel Andujar ; with an 
autobiography by the author. Illus.. 12mo, pp. 220. Fleming 
H. Revell Co. $1.25 net. 

Just Irish. By Charles Battell Loomis. 12mo, pp. 175. Boston : 
Gorham Press. $1. 

NATURE AND OUT-DOOR LIFE. 
The Biography of a Silver-Fox ; or. Domino Reynard of 

Golden Town. By Ernest Thompson Seton. Ulna.. 12mo, 

pp. 209. Century Co. $1.50. 
Wild Life on the Rockies. By Enos A. Mills. Illus., 8to, 

pp. 257. Houghton Mifflin Co. $1.75 net. 
The Summer Garden of Pleasure. By Mrs. Stephen Batson. 

Illus in color, 8vo, pp. 231. A. C. McClurg & Co. $3.50 net. 
Stiokeen. By John Muir. 12mo, pp.74. Houghton Mifflin Co. 

60 cts. net. 

PUBLIC AFFAIRS. 

America and the Far Eastern dnestion. By Thomas F. 
Millard. Illus., and with maps, large 8vo, pp. 576. Moffat. 
Yard & Co. $4. net. 

The Government of European Cities. By William Bennett 
Munro, Ph.D. Large 8vo, pp. 409. Macmillan Co. $2.50 net. 

The Government of American Cities: A Program of 
Democracy. By Horace E. Deming. 8vo, pp. 323. G. P. 
Putnam's Sons. $1.50 net. 

Social Engineering : A Record of Things Done by American 
Industrialists. By William H. Tolman, Ph.D. ; with Intro- 
duction by Andrew Carnegie. Illus., large 8vo. pp. 384. 
McGraw Publishing Co. $2. net. 

Social Organization: A Study of the Larger Mind. By 
Charles Horton Cooley. 8vo, pp. 426. Charles Scribner's 
Sons. $1.50 net. 

The Standard of Living Among Working Men's Families 
in New York City. By Robert Coit Chapin, Ph D. 4to, 
pp.372. New York: Charities Publication Committee. $2. 



THE 

Mosher 
Books 

ne only collec- 
tion of genu- 
ine hand-made 
paper books at 
popular prices 
in tAmerica. 



THE 

MOSHER BOOKS 

CATALOGUE 



My New Catalogue covering 
every title I have published, 
1891-1908 inclusive, is now 
ready, and will be mailed free 
on request. It is without ques- 
tion a bibelot in itself and as 
choice a production as I can 
hope to offer. 

Thomas B.MosHER 

PORTLAND, MAINE 



BOOKBINDING 

PLAIN AND ARTISTIC. IN ALL VARIETIES OF 
LEATHER 

HENRY BLACKWELL 

University Place and 10th Street, New York City 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



271 



We Make a Specialty of BOOKS and PAMPHLETS 

ON 

RAILROADS, CANALS, BANKING, AND FINANCE 

DIXIE BOOK SHOP 

Catalogue on application. 41 LIBERTY ST., NEW YORK 

STUDY and PRACTICE of FRENCH in Four Parts 

L. C. BoNAMB, Author and Publisher, 1930 Chestnut St., Philadelphia. 
Well-graded series for Preparatory Schools and Colleges. No time 
wasted in superficial or mechanical work. French Text: Numerous 
exercises in conversation, translation, composition. Part I. ( 60 cts. ) : 
Primary grade; thorough drill in Pronunciation. Part II. (90 cts.): 
IntermedlEite grade; Essentials of Grammar; 4th edition, revised, with 
Vocabulary; most carefully graded. Part III. ($1.00): Composition, 
Idioms, Syntax ; meets requirements for admission to college. Pari IV. 
(35c.): /landbook of Pronunciation tor adya,ticedgTa,de; concise and com- 
prehensive. Ser^t to teachers /or examination, with a view to introduction. 

FINE BOOKS RECENTLY IMPORTED 

Described in our Honthly Catalogme — Uarch Issne — 
FKEE on application. JOSEPH McDONOUGH CO.. 

98 State Street. ALBANY, N. Y. (Established 1870.) 

DANTE'S INFERNO 

Edited, with introduction, arguments, and footnotes, by 

Professor C. H. GRANDGENT, of Harvard University. 

Cloth. 319 pares. $1.26. 

Unnecessary erudition has been discarded, but aU information requi- 
site for the understanding of Dante and his poem has been included. 

D. C. HEATH & CO., PUBLISHERS 

BOSTON NEW YORK CHICAGO LONDON 

WII I INn WORKER wants literary work. Doctor of 
TT aa^<^ai'«vs philosophy, encyclopedist, proofreader, 
translator six lanaroasres, typewriter. H. B., care The Dial. 

SEND FOR NEfV CATALOGUES 

OLD AND RARE NATURAL HISTORY, 

AMERICANA, Etc. 

FRANKLIN BOOKSHOP. 920 Walnut St.. PHILADELPHIA 



Autograph 
Letters 



Of Celebrities Bought and Sold. 

Send for price lists. 

WALTER R. BENJAMIN, 

226 Fifth Ave.. New York City. 

Pub. "THE COLLECTOR," $1 a year. 



THE NEW YORK BUREAU OF REVISION 

Established in 1880. LETTERS OF CRITICISM, EXPERT 
REVISION OF MSS. Advice as to publication. Address 
DR. TITUS M. COAN. 70 FIFTH AVE., NEW YORK CITY 



ROOK'^ ALL OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS SUPPLIED, 

^-'^-'^-'■*^*^* no matter on what subject. Write us. We can get 
you any book ever published. Please state vrants. Catalogue free. 
BAKBB'S GREAT BOOK SHOP, 14-16 Bright St., Bibminoham, Ens. 



CATALOG OF 



AMERICANA 

Including many rare works on North American Indians, 
State and Local History, Western Travels, Etc. Just 
issued. Mailed free on application. 

THE ARTHUR H. CLARK CO., CLEVELAND, OHIO 



F. M. HOLLY 
Authors' and Fnbllahers' Bepresentative 

Circulars sent upon request. 156 Fifth Avenue. Nbw York. 

Authors Seeking a Publisher 

Should communicate with 
the Cochrane Publishing Co. 
450 Tribune Bnildincr, New 
York City 

TVPCU/DITIMC • I^ranuitk!, Literary. 4 cents per hundred words. 
I irClinilinD . References. M.S. Gilpatbic, 156 Fifth Ave., N.Y. 

RARF ROOICS t catalogues issued Regclablt. 
***^***^ *.»v^v<r«^ij . Next one relates to Lincolk. 
Civil War, and Slavery. Sent Free. 

W. F. STOWE. 167 CUNTON AVE.. KINGSTON. N. Y. 



MANUSCRIPTS 
TYPEWRITTEN 



EXPERT SERVICE 

MODERATE FEES" 
L. E. Swsrtz, 526 Newport, ChicsgOt. 



OUR ASSISTANCE 

IN THE PURCHASE OF BOOKS, ESPECIALY RARE OR SCARCE ONSS, 

IS ALWAYS AVAILABLE, AND HAS HELPED MANY CAREFUL BUYBBB. 

WE SEND OUR CATALOGUE ON REQUEST. 

THE TORCH PRESS BOOK SHOP, CEDAR RAPIDS. IOWA 
SEND FOR OUR 

Removal Sale Catalogue 

MANY GOOD BARGAINS LISTED IN STANDARD AUTHORS, 
REFERENCE BOOKS, AMERICANA, HISTORY, ETC. 

THE H. R. HUNTTING COMPANY 

SPRINGFIELD, MASS. 



C. J. PRICE 

1004 Walnut St., Philadelphia, Pm. 

IMPORTER OF CHOICE and RARE BOOKSi 

FRENCH AND ENGLISH 

Invites the attention of Book-Lovers and those forming:^ 
Fine Libraries to his collection of First and Choice Editions^ 
of Standard Authors, Americana, books illustrated by- 
Cruikshank, Leech, and " Phiz," first editions of Dickens,?" 
Thackeray, Lever, Lei^h Hunt, etc. Devoting his attention:^ 
exclusively to the choicer class of books, and with experi-^; 
enced agents abroad, he is able to guarantee the prompt" 
and efficient execution of all orders. 

Frequent catalogues of Select Importations are issued, 
and sent gratis on demand. -. 



A New Volume in The Art of Life Series. 
Edward Howard Griggs, Editor. 

SELF-MEASUREMENT 

A Scale of Human Values with Directions far Personal Application 
By WILLIAM DE WITT HYDE, President of Bowdoin CoUege. 

At all bookstores. 50 cts net; postpaid, 55 cts. 
B. W. HUEBSCH PUBLISHER NEW YORY CITY 



WII HAM D IPMVIMQ Pn Publishers, Booksellers, 
IflLLIHIn III JlIiMIiO UUi stationers, and Printers 
851-863 SI XTH AVE.. Cor. ASth St., NEW YORK 

FRENCH 



AND OTBBB 
rOREION 

BOOKS 

Complete cata- 
logs on request. 



BKAO ens 
ROMANS CHOISIS. 26 Titles. Paper 
60 cts., cloth 86 cts. per volume. CONTES 
CHOISIS. 24 Titles. Paper 25 cts., cloth 
40 cts. per volume. Masterpieces, pure, by well- 
known authors. Read extensively by classes ;■- 
notes in EngUsb. List on application. 



272 THE DIAL. [April 16, 1909. 

Second Printing of a New Novel of Unusual Merit 

H. H. Bashford's THE PILGRIM'S MARCH 

A likable youth of artistic tendencies is caught between the conflicting influences of a self-conscious, puri- 
tan family, where there is a lovable girl, and a circle of artistic friends. The situation is worked out with 
humor and in an atmosphere of good breeding. $1.50. 

.The Chicago Record-Herald says: 

" Really charming. They *re all very real, these good people, even the most lightly sketched among them, 
while Broggers, and lisping Chris, ami * Good Old Lomax,' and sweet, human Margaret, and brave, brave Betty, 
these are altogether too nice and wholesomely lovable to shut. away with the memory of their story's single read- 
ing. No; there 's too much to be learned and enjoyed, from jolly opening episode to happy conclusion, to think 
of perusing ' The Pilgrim's March ' but once." 

The Hartford Courant says : 
^ , "A rarely interesting novel." 

The Rochester Post-Express says : 

" A book so natural, so true to life and so full of genuine human interest. A book which, in the true sense 
of the word, is literature." 

The Washington {D.C.) Star says : 

" Somewhat of the temperament of Miss Sinclair's * Divine Fire.' . . . Reaches a powerful climax with 
intensely dramatic effect. . . . Will be one of the notable books of the season." 

NEW NON-FICTION 

IN THE AMERICAN NA TUBE SERIES (Prospectut on Request) 

Holder and Jordan's FISH STORIES $1.75 net. 

Alleged and experienced, with a little history, natural and imnatural. With colored plates and 
many illustrations. " A delightful miscellany." — New York Sun. 

Sternberg's THE LIFE OF A FOSSIL HUNTER $1.60 net. 

, A most interesting autobiography of the oldest and best-known explorer in this field, forty- 

r eight illustrations. 

Knowlton and Ridgway's BIRDS OF THE WORLD $7.00 net. 

A popular account. The most comprehensive one-volume bird book. Sixteen colored plates, 
and several himdred other illustrations. 



Carter's WHEN RAILROADS WERE NEW March. Probable price, $2.00 net. 

For general readers. Covers the railroad builders, and the picturesque history of the great sys- 
; tems up to the time they cease to be unusiuil and become commercial. With sixteen illustrations. 

Coolldge's CHINESE IMMIGRATION April. Probable price, $1.50 net. 

A valuable addition to the American Public Problems Series. Earlier volumes are Hall's 
" Immigration " and Haynes's " Election of Senators." 

Dudley and Keller's ATHLETIC GAMES IN THE EDUCATION OF WOMEN 

An exposition of conditions and a manual for instructors and players. $1.25 net. 

Fl FTY YEARS OF DARWINISM March. Probable price, $2.00 net. 

Eleven centennial addresses in honor of Charles Darwin, delivered before the American Asso- 
ciation for the advancement of Science, January, 1909. 

McPherson's RAILROAD FREIGHT RATES April. Probable price, $2.00 net. 

In relation to the commerce and industry of the United States. By the author of " The 
r Working of the Railroads." 

JUVENILES 

Burton's BOB'S CAVE BOYS A sequel to " The Boys of Bob's Hill." $1.50. 

Hunting's WITTER WHITEHEAD'S OWN STORY Illustrated. $1.25. 

A story for boys about a lucky splash of whitewash, some stolen silver, and a house 
that was n't vacant. 

HENRY HOLT & COMP ANY ^iry'o\f^cS 

THE DIAIi PRESS, FINE ABTS BUILDING, CHICAGO 




THE 




^ SEMI-MONTHLY JOURN/IL OF 



Edited by 
FRANCIS F. BROWNE 



XVolume XLVI. f^X^^ f^ S. (^ r\ A;T A V 1 1 QrtQ io c<». o copt/./ Fine Arts Building 

/ No. 61^. ^niL/AUU, iVlii.1 1, 1»U». $2. a year. I 203 Michigan Blvd. 




MESSRS. HOUGHTON MIFFLIN COMPANY BEG TO 
ANNOUNCE THAT AFTER MANY DELAYS INCIDENT 
TO PREPARATION AND PRINTING, THE RIVERSIDE 
PRESS EDITION OF AUGUSTE BERNARD'S LIFE OF 
GEOFROY TORY, TRANSLATED BY GEORGE B. IVES, 
IS NOW READY FOR DELIVERY. 

C Aside from its interest as an important contribution to the his- 
tory of engraving and typography, it will have a special appeal 
for those who have followed the work of Mr. Bruce Rogers, for 
no other volume in the series has been given closer study, more 
careful scrutiny, or greater wealth of treatment in design. The 
edition is printed from the Riverside Caslon, a type re-cut espe- 
cially for it by Mr. Rogers, from original Caslon letters. This 
new face harmonizes admirably with the spirit and feeling of 
Tory's crisp and sparkling designs, which are the chief raison d'etre 
of this publication. Some of these designs are familiar to readers 
of the several monographs on the subject, but many have been 
taken from original sources and are here reproduced for the first 
time. The photo-process plates of the illustrations have all been 
re-engraved by Mr. Rogers, for printing on hand-made paper, 
and the composition, presswork, and all matters of detail con- 
cerned with the manufacture of the volume have been under his 
personal supervision. 

CThe circular showing the size of page, specimens of the type 
and illustrations, quality of the paper, and full description will be 
sent on application. 



BOSTON 



HOUGHTON MIFFLIN COMPANY 



NEW YORK 




274 THE DIAL. [Mayl, 



THE LOVE LETTERS OF THOMAS CARLYLE AND JANE WELSH 

Edited by Alexander Carlyle, Nephew 
of Thomas Carlyle. With portraits. 2 vols. 
Cloth. 8vo. $8.00 net. Express extra. 

These are the Letters that passed be- 
tween Thomas Carlyle and Jane Welsh 
from the time of their first meeting: in 
May, 1821, until their marriage. 

CHICAGO TRIBUNE: "The most 
important contribution to literature of the 
new year." 

BOSTON TRANSCRIPT: "// is to be 

doubted if in all literature there is anything 
quite the equal of these letters, in their spon- 
taneity, their breadth of view, their intimacy. 
They are so great that they really belong to the 
world and to posterity." 

LONDON DAILY NEWS: " The liter- 
ature of letters will be searched in vain for 
a parallel. Even the love letters of the 

Brownings suffer by comparison, for Elizabeth Barrett had none of the witchery of jane Welsh. 

Together the Carlyles formed the most brilliant correspondents that ever joined issue." 

THE MAKING OF CARLYLE 

By R. S. CRAIG. 8vo. Illustrated. I4.00 net. Postage 20 cents. 

Containing an account of his Birth and Parentage, School Days, Marriage, First Visits to London 
and Paris, etc. 

THOMAS HOOD: His Life and Times 

By WALTER JERROLD. Illustrated. 8vo. I5.00 net. Postage 20 cents. 

The writer has been able to draw upon much material which was not available to the writers of the 
" Memorias," and to give a number of letters that have hitherto remained unpublished. 

THE JOURNAL OF JOHN MAYNE During a Tour on the Continent 
upon its Reopening After the Fall of Napoleon, 1814 

Edited by his Grandson, JOHN MAYNE COLLES. With Numerous Illustrations. The period covered is 
the interval between the fall of Napoleon and "The Hundred Days." Cloth. 8vo. |4.oonet. Postage 1 6c. 

A SISTER OF PRINCE RUPERT 

Elizabeth Princess Palatine Abbess of Herford 

By ELIZABETH GODFREY. Illustrated. Cloth. 8vo. $4.00 net. Postage 16 cents. 

This biography of an interesting member of a singularly interesting family is at once a study of a 
temperament and of an epoch. 

LADIES FAIR AND FRAIL 

Sketches of the Demimonde during the Eighteenth Century 

By HORACE BLEACKLEY. With Numerous Portraits reproduced from contemporary sources. 
GRIEG AND HIS MUSIC ^'°'^ ^"^^ $500 net Postage 18 cents 

By H. T. FINCK. With Illustration. Ready Shortly. 8vo. $2.50 net. Postage 20 cents. 

Mr. Finck has made use of new valuable material, including all of Mr. Grieg's letters to the author 
and other friends, to which will be added an account of his death. List of Grieg's works, the most 
complete ever printed. Extracts from the " Writings on Music and Musicians." 

WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE: Player, Playmaker, and Poet 

A Reply to Mr. George Greenwood's "Shakespeare Problem" 

By H. C. BEECHING, D.Litt., Canon Westminster. Cloth. i2mo. |i.oonet. Postage 10 cents. 

IN RE SHAKESPEARE: Beeching vs. Greenwood 

Rejoinder on Behalf of the Defendant 

By GEORGE GREENWOOD, M. P. Cloth. i2mo. |i.oonet. Postage 10 cents. 

JOHN LANE COMPANY ^"ie'n^fir^J.TI.^r.'i f J^e°'° NEW YORK 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



276 



Moffat, Yard 
&. Company 



''These are Books that Really Count" 



Moffat, Yard 
& Company 



THE BOOK OF THE HOUR" 



PSYCHOTHERAPY 

By HUGO MUNSTERBERG, M.D., Ph.D., LL.D. 

Professor of Psychology at Harvard University. 



This book, by one of the foremost practical psychologists 
in the world, rises to this need. It is a consistent dealing 
with the whole subject, from the standpoint of modem 
psychology, for the benefit of the unscientific as well as 
the professional reader. Dr. Miinsterberg possesses, to 
a remarkable degree, the rare ability of making abstruse 
subjects plain to men and women of intelligence who 
have not specialized. 

8vo. $2.00 net. 



CONTENT S--PAB.'Sl.,Tna.e Psychologrioal Basis of 
Psychotherapy : II., The Aim of Psychology. III., Mind 
and Brain. IV., Psychology and Medicine. V., Suggestion 
and Hypnotism. VI., The Psychology of the Subconscious.— 
PART II., The Practical Work of Psychotherapy : 
VII.. The Field of Psychotherapy. VIII.. The General 
Methods of Psychotherapy. IX., The Special Methods of 
Psychotherapy. X., The Mental Symptoms. XI., The Bodily 
Symptoms. — PART III.. The Place of Psychotherapy : 
XII., Psychotheiapy and the Church. XIII., Psychotherapy 
and the Physician. XIV., Psychotherapy and the Community. 
By mail. $2.20. 



THOMAS F. MILLARD'S 
AMERICA AND THE FAR 
EASTERN QUESTION 

An Examination of Modern Phases of 
the Far Eastern Question, including 
the New Activities and Policy of 
Japan, the Situation in China, and 
the Relation of the United States of 
America to the Problems Involved. 

Mr. Millard reaches the opinion 
that a thoroughly stable balance of 
power can never be reached without 
the active participation of America. 
This is an extremely important book. 

With 36 illustrations and 2 maps. 

8vo. $4.00 net. By mail, $4.20. 




IDA M. TARBELL'S 
FATHER ABRAHAM 

Uniform with the authorh " He Knew 

Lincoln." 
Of all who have written of Lincoln, 
none has so clearly seen the great 
throbbing, suffering human heart 
hidden deep from common eyes 
under the rough, stalwart, kindly, 
forceful character he showed the 
world. 

This is the theme of this delight- 
ful study. 

Illustrated in colors by Campbell. 

16mo. 50cts.net. By mail, 55 cts- 



MISCELLANEOUS 
WILLIAM S. WALSH'S 
" PUNCH " AND ABRAHAM 
LINCOLN 

Fifty cartoons reproduced with an able introduction by 
Mr. Walsh. $1.00 net. By mail, $1.10. 

ALFRED T. SCHOFIELD'S 
NERVOUSNESS 

An elementary review of modern conditions by the 
leading English authority. 50 cts. net. By mail, 55 cts. 

GEORGE HODGES'S (Dean Hodges) 
THE APPRENTICESHIP OF 
VVASHINGTON 

Five historical papers of unusual interest dealing with 

the bypaths of Colonial history. 12mo. $1.25 net. 

By mail, $1.35. 

WILLIAM BRADLEY OTIS'S 
AMERICAN VERSE, 1625-1807 

A scholarly work of much accomplishment and distinc- 
tioii- $1.75 net. By mail, $1.90. 



WORTH WHILE FICTION 
J. C. SNAITH'S 
ARAMINTA 

" Not a flaw to mark its delicate perfectness. 



Evening Post. 



Chicago 
12mo. $1.60. 



JOHN TREVENA'S 
ARMINEL OF THE WEST 

" A novel that will bring him fame." — London Observer. 

12mo. $1.50. 

JOHN TREVENA'S 
HEATHER 

A novel of wonderful distinction. Second in the 
"Furze" trilogy. 12mo. $1.50. 

GRACE LUCE IRWIN'S 

THE DIARY OF A SHOW GIRL 

" The sprightliest novel of theatrical life ever pub- 
lished." Pictures by Wallace Morgan. 12mo. $1.00. 



WILLIAM WINTER'S 
WILLIAM WINTER'S 



TO BE PUBLISHED AT ONCE 
OLD FRIENDS S. ADOLPHUS KNOPF'S TUBERCULOSIS 

COMPLETE POEMS SAMUEL McCOMB'S MAKING OFTHE ENGLISH BIBLE 



MOFFAT, YARD & COMPANY PUBLISHERS NEW YORK 



276 



THE DIAL. 



[May 1, 



Indispensable Books for Every Library 
at Less than One-third Published Price 

TTAVING secured the entire remaining stock of the original 
■*--'- "Muses' Library/' published by Charles Scribner's Sons 
in conjunction with Lawrence & Bullen of London, we are 
able to offer this well-known series at less than one-third the 
original price. The volumes are beautifully printed and bound, 
and fully edited by prominent English scholars. Each contains 
a portrait in photogravure. A list of the titles is given below. 



POEMS OF JOHN KEATS 

Edited by G. Thorn Drury, with 
an Introduction by Robert 
Bridges. 
Two volumes. 



" What was deepest in the mind of Keats was the love of loveliness for 
its own sake, the sense of its rightful and preeminent power ; and in the 
singleness of worship which he gave to Beauty, Keats is especially the 
ideal poet." — Stopford Brooke. 



POEMS OF THOMAS CAMPION 
Edited by A, H. BuIIen. 
One volume. 



" Few indeed are the poets who have handled our stubborn English 
language with such masterly deftness. So long as ' elegancy, facility, 
and golden cadence of poesy' are admired, Campion's fame will be 
secure." — A. H. Bullen. 



POETRY OF GEORGE WITHER 
Edited by Frank Sidgwick. 
Tw^o volumes. 



"The poems of Wither are distinguished by a hearty homeliness of 
manner and a plain moral speaking. He seems to have passed his life 
in one continual act of innocent self-pleasing." — Charles Lamb. 



POEMS OF WILLIAM BROWNE 
OF TAVISTOCK 
Edited by Gordon Goodwine, 
with an Introduction by A. H. 
Bullen. 
Two volumes. 



" Browne is like Keats in being before all things an artist, he has the 
same intense pleasure in a fine line or a fine phrase for its own sake. . . . 
In his best passages — and they are not few — he will send to the listener 
wafts of pure and delightful music." — W. T. Arnold. 



POEMS OF SAMUEL TAYLOR 
COLERIDGE 

Edited by Richard Garnett. 
One volume. 



"Although the best poetical work of Coleridge is extremely small in 
bulk . . . yet his poetry at its best reaches the absolute limits of English 
verse as yet written." — George Saintsbury. 



POEMS OF HENRY VAUGHAN 
Edited by E. K. Chambers, with 
an Introduction by H. C. 
Beeching. 
Two volumes. 



" Vaughan may occasionally out-Herbert Herbert in metaphors and 
emblems, but in spite of them, and even through them, it is easy to see 
that he has a passion for Nature for her own sake ; that he has observed 
her works ; that indeed the world is to him no less than a veil of the 
Eternal Spirit, whose presence may be felt in any, even the smallest, 
part." — H. C. Beeching. 



Reduced from $1.75 to 
50c. a Volume, Postpaid 



BROWNE'S BOOKSTORE 

THE FINE ARTS BUILDING 

MICHIGAN BLVD. CHICAGO 



1909.] THE DIAL 27T 



BOOKS OF GENERAL INTEREST 

A History of German Literature 

By CALVIN THOMAS, LL.D., Gebhard Professor of the Germanic Languages and Literatures, 
Columbia University. A selection of the most representative and pregnant historical facts. 

12mo. Cloth. $1.50 net. 

Modern Educators and their Ideals 

By TADASU MIS A WA, Ph.D. Sympathetically and significantly, Dr. Misawa gives a general idea 
of the educational views of philosophers of modern times. 12mo. Cloth. $1.25 net. 

Problems of City Government 

By LEO S, ROWE, Ph.D., LL.D., Professor of Political Science, University of Pennsylvania. Its 
purpose is to present an analysis of the general principles involved in city growth. 
_ 12mo. Cloth. $1.50 net. 

My Story 

By HALL CAINE. Illustrated by intimate and hitherto unpublished photographs selected by the 
author. In this account of his life the famous novelist incorporates the records of his friendship and 
acquaintance with many of the most eminent literary men of the last century. 
^. . . „ „ , 8vo. Cloth, gilt top. $2.00 net. 

The House of Howard ^ 

By GERALD BRENAN and EDWARD PHILLIPS STA THAM. « No family in England has 
been more concerned in the political, social, and religious developments of the English people." 

32 full-page illustrations, 2 photogravure plates. 2 volumes. Cloth, 8vo. $6.00 special net. 

Human Speech: Its Physical Basis 

By N. C. MACNAMARA, F.R.C.S. " One closes the book impressed with Mr. Macnamara's lucid 
and interesting exposition of a very difficult and intricate subject." — British Medical Journal. 

Numerous illustrations. Crown 8vo. $1.75 net. 

The Transformations of the Animal World 

By CHARLES DEPERET, Corresponding Member of the Institute de France and Dean of the Faculty 
of Sciences at the Universite de Lyon. It traces the different stages of evolutionary theory from the 
time of Cuvier downward and forms a complete and trustworthy guide to the history of animals. 

Crown Svo. $1.75 net. 

Man in the Light of Evolution 

By JOHN M. TYLER, Ph.D., Professor of Biology, Amherst College. " No reader will go amiss in 
taking up this book, for it will grip both his mind and attention, and he will find it as interesting as a 
novel." — Boston Transcript. 12mo. Cloth. $1.25 net. 

Viva Mexico ! 

By CHARLES M. FLANDRAU. Mexico as seen through the eyes of an American who tells 
charmingly of the odd human things that interest everybody. 12mo. Cloth. $1.25 net. 

A Year out of Life. A Novel 

By MARY E. WALLER, author of ^^ The Woodcarverof^Lympus." This exquisitely written story 
of a literary love affair will furnish matter for thorough enjoyment and leisurely appreciation to 
readers of taste and discrimination. 12mo. Decorated cloth cover. $1.50. 

Our Village. A Novel 

By JOSEPH C. LINCOLN. A delightful picture of life on Cape Cod thirty years ago. A splendid 
book for gift purposes. Many pen-and-ink sketches, four half-tone illustrations. 

Printed throughout on toned paper, 12mo. Decorated cloth cover. $1.50 net. 

Modern Accounting 

By HENRY RAND HA T FIELD, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Accounting, University of California. 
A presentation and discussion of the principles of accoimting in their important relations. 

12mo. Cloth. $1.75 net. 



MORE DETAILED INFORMATION ON REQUEST 

u. APPLETON & CO. Newvo. 



D. APPLETON & CO. """"" 



278 



THE DIAL 



[Mayl, 



The Home 
Poetry Book 

We have all been 
wanting so 

lonO" ^rf***^*^ Edited by 

XKJll^ •^X'^ FRANCIS F. BROWNE 

Editor "Poems of the Civil War," 
"Laurel Crowned Verse." etc. Author 
'Everyday Life of Lincoln," etc., etc. 

"GOLDEN POEMS" contains more of everyone's 
favorites than any other collection at a popu- 
lar price, and has besides the very best of the 
many fine poems that have been written in 
the last few years. 

Other collections may contain more poems of owe 
kind or more by one author. 

"GOLDEN POEMS" (by British and American 
Authors) has 550 selections from 300 writers, 

covering the whole range of English literature. 



"Golden Poems" 



"GOLDEN POEMS " is a fireside volume for the 
thousands of families who love poetry. It is 
meant for those who cannot afford all the col- 
lected works of their favorite poets — it offers 
the poems they like best, all in one volume. 

The selections in " GOLDEN POEMS " are classi- 
fied according to their subjects : By the Fire- 
side; Nature's Voices; Dreams and Fancies; 
Friendship and Sympathy; Love; Liberty and 
Patriotism; Battle Echoes; Humor; Pathos and 
Sorrow; The Better Life; Scattered Leaves. 

" GOLDEN POEMS," with its wide appeal, at- 
tractively printed and beautifully bound, 
makes an especially appropriate Christmas 
gift. 

In two styles binding, ornamental cloth and flex- 
ible leather. Of booksellers, or the publishers, 
A. C. McCLURG & CO., CHICAGO. 
Price, fz.SO. 




M- 

^ 
" 



DOOK publishers and book journals are 
'-^ alike sustained by a book public. The 
people who read book journals are the ones 
who buy books. Daily papers and miscel- 
laneous journals have miscellaneous read- 
ers, some of whom are bookish people. AU 
the readers of a book journal are bookish 
people. The Dial is preeminently a book 
joiffnal, published solely in the interests 
of the book class, — the literary and culti- 
vated class. 



"T^HE DIAL is more generally consulted 
*■ and depended upon by Librarian's in 
making up orders for books than any 
other American critical journal; it circu- 
lates more widely among retail book- 
sellers than any other journal of its class ; 
it is the accustomed literary guide and aid 
of thousands of private book-buters, 
covering every section of the coimtry. 



:ir :rr IT IT -TT 



ANYBOOK 

advertised or 
mentioned in 
this issue mazf 
be hadjroiru 

WKSTORE 

The Fine Arts Building 
T^ichi^an'Blvd., Chicaao 



u 

^ 



M 



U 






M 
^ 



lY -IT -fr -;r t r ir 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



279 



NEW EDITION AT A 
REDUCED PRICE 

Self Cultivation 
in English 

By GEORGE HERBERT PALMER, LL.D. 

Professor of Philosophy, Harvard University. 

"May be unreservedly commended to any one 
who desires to write or to speak our common 
language with good effect." — Boston Herald. 



32 pp, 12mo, paper cover 

Ten Cents Net 

By mail, Twelve Cents 



THOMAS Y. CROWELL & CO. 

NEW YORK 



OF INTEREST 
to LIBRARIANS 

T T /"E are now handling a larger per- 
' ' centage of orders from Public 
Libraries, School and College 
Libraries, than any other dealer in 
the entire country. This is because 
our book stock, covering all classes 
and grades of books, is more com- 
plete than that of any other book- 
seller in the United States, enabling 
us to make full and prompt ship- 
ments. Also, because we have a well 
equipped department looking after 
this special branch of the business. 

A. C. McCLURG & CO. 

UBRARY DEPARTMENT CHICAGO 



THE STATESMANSHIP OF 

ANDREW JACKSON 

As Told in His JVritings and Speeches 

Edited by FRANCIS NEWTON THORPE, Ph.D., LL.D. 

Sometime Professor of Constitutional History in the University 
of Pennsylvania; author of "Constitutional History of the 
United States"; editor, for the United States Government, of 
" The Constitutions, Charters, and Organic Laws of the States 
and Territories." 

THE ONLY COLLECTION ever made of the writings of 
Andrew Jackson. It contains every important letter 
and document, and exhibits the principles of Statecraft 
which made him one of the greatest of our Presidents. 
Many of them have never before been published in any 
form. They show that he shaped the destiny of America 
more than has been realized even by historians. Every 
aspect of his Statesmanship is graphically set forth in 
his own words, especially in reference to the three great 
questions of his day — Nullification, the United States 
Bank, and the Public Domain. 

THE EDITOR is conceded to be one of the greatest author- 
ities upon the subject, a scholar of the ripest erudition and a 
writer of the utmost clarity and precision. 

THE INTRODUCTION is a rarely comprehensive critical 
estimate of Jackson's place in American History. 



EXPLANATORY NOTES 
BIOGRAPHICAL OUTUNE 
BIBUOGRAPHY 
ANALYTICAL INDEX 



Well Printed 

Large Type 

Good Paper 

Durable Binding 



6S8 pp., Svo, cloth, gilt top. Price, $2.50. 

Of your Bookseller or by mail, postpaid 

THE TANDY-THOMAS COMPANY 

Dept. A, 31-33 East 27th Street, New York 

(pacing MADISON SQUARE GARDEN) 



PUBLISHED THIS WEEK 

Beyond the Skyline 

By ROBERT AITKEN 

The most remarkable volume of short stories since 
Kipling made his reputation. Bright, crisp, wholesome ; 
an even balance of love and adventure, pathos and 
laughter. 

Altogether an unusual book, written in English that 
exhilarates and satisfies. 

" Well worth re-reading and preserving." — London Daily 
Telegraph. 
At any good bookstore, or of the publisher. ^1.50 postpaid. 

B. W. HUEBSCH, 225 Fifth Avenue, New York 



OUR UBRARY SERVICE 

WE have recently supplemented our service to Libraries, by 
procuring Out-of-Print and Scarce Books, and by importing 
English books. 

Our EDUCATIONAL CATALOGUE contains a fuU Ust 
of Supplementary Beading, indicating the grade to which each 
title is adapted. 

Our CLEARANCE CATALOGUE contains overstock at 
special prices, and an alphabetical arrangement by authors of all 
cheap editions of Recent Popular Fiction and Standard Library 
12mos in one hat. 

Our LI BRARY CATALOGU E of 3500 approved titles, fol- 
lowing A. L. A. lines, is of great convenience to small Ubraries. 

Our MONTHLY BULLETIN notices promptly every new 
book of importance. 
These Catalogues are sent on request. Three notable features of 

our service are : promptness, thoroughness, and low prices. 

THE BAKER & TAYLOR CO. 

WHOLESALE DEALERS IN THE BOOKS OF ALL PUBLISHERS 

33 East Seventeenth Street, New York 



280 



THE DIAL 



[May 1, 1909. 



The Latest Macmillan Books 



The Faith and Works of Christian Science 

By the author of Confessio Medici, which many remember for the charm of its spirit as well as its content. His 
witty thrusts at Christian Science aroused an interest which has developed into the book he there spoke of 
writing — a small part of what physicians and surgeons know of the so-called science and its results. 

Uniform with " Confessio Medici." $1.25 net; by mail, $1.55. 

Mr. Percy MacKaye's new hook The Playhouse and the Play 

A discussion of the place of the theatre in democratic America, and of the possibilities in a civic theatre. 

By the author of "Jeanne d'Arc," " The Canterbury Pilgrims," "Mater," etc. $1.25 net; by mail, $1.35. 

John Spargo s new edition, revised, of Socialism 

Those who have known this work since its first issue as an illuminating exposition of the whole question of 
economic reform from the Socialist viewpoint, will appreciate a new chapter which expresses the author's 
personal opinion as to the " Means of Realization " of the Socialist state. Cloth, ISmo. $1.60 net; by mail, $1.61. 

Professor Francis B. Gummere's translation The Oldest English Epic 

is singularly successful in preserving the form, half chant, half lilt, of all that survives of the narrative poetry 
which the English brought from their Qerman home. To students of Anglo-Saxon the work is of course all but 
indispensable, but the fire and spirit of the old singers to the hall-thanes deserves a warm welcome from the 
general reader also. Cloth, 12mo. $1.10 net. 

Mr. Sidney Lee's standard Life of William Shakespeare 

has been thoroughly revised in view -of the work of Shakespearean scholars since its first appearance in 1898. The 
work will all the more retain its standing as the most valuable and scholarly of all the brief lives of Shakespeare — 
as Henry A. Clapp remarked of it " monumentally excellent." Cloth, nmo. $1.75 net; by mail, $1.87. 

Dr. Irving E. Miller's The Psychology of Thinking 

is an attempt to follow the working of the mind as it struggles with problems, in concrete life, to arrive at the 
significance of the processes involved ; and to show the growth in control over the forces of the world, and of life, 
that comes through their development and training. Cloth, 12mo. $1.50 net; by mail, $1.61. 

Rt. Rev. Charles D. Williams, Bishop of Michigan, in hi<s 

A Valid Christianity for To-day 

offers a welcome book to the men who are working to bring about the closest relation between the forces of the 
organized Church and the needs of society. It is direct and outspoken , but in spirit is constructive, not destructive. 

Cloth, nmo. $1.50 net; by mail,$1.6S, 



William B. Munro*s important 

The Government of European Cities 

So far the best as to be virtually the only book for the 
reader or practical politician who desires to compare 
American conditions with European practice in city 
government. Cloth, annotated bibliography. 

$2.50 net; by mail, $2.69. 

Kate V. Saint Maur's new book 
The Earth's Bounty 

By the author of "A Self-Supporting Home." 

Cloth, illus. $1.76 net; by mail, $1.90. 

Dr. L. ri. Bailey s now complete 
Cyclopedia of Agriculture 

is the one indispensable book of reference on the 

country place, whether that be farm or summer 

residence, large or small. In four volumes. 

Cloth. $20.00 net. Send for a full description. 



Frank Danby's Sebastian 

By the author of "The Heart of a Child." 

Third Edition. Cloth. $1.60. 

Rina Ramsay's The Straw 

No recent book begins to equal its thrill for those 
who love the saddle, a good run, and the jollity of a 
gay " hunting set." Cloth. $1.50. 

Eden Phillpotts's The Three Brothers 

By the author of " The Secret Woman." " There is 
tremendous strength in it and the finest art." 
— Bookm,an. Cloth. $1.50. 

Mr. F. Marion Crawford's 
The White Sister 

By the author of "Saracinesca," and reverting to 
the scenes and times of the third generation of that 
family. Cloth. $1.50. 

Miss Ellen Glasgow's new novel 
The Romance of a Plain Man 

To be ready May U. Cloth. $1.60. 



PUBLISHED 
BY 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 



64-66 Fifth Ave. 
NEW YORK 



THE DIAL 

a S>cmi*i^nt!)t2 3onmaI of iLiterarg dlxititi&vx, W&tn&mn, antJ Ittfotmatum. 



THE DIAL Cfounded in 1880) is published on the 1st and 16th oj 
each month. Teems of Sitbsceiption, 82. a year in advance, postage 
prepaid in the United States, and Mexico; Foreign and Canadian 
postage 60 cents per year extra. Kbmittancbs should be by check, or 
by express or postal order, payable to THE DIAL COMPANY. 
Unless otherwise ordered, subscriptions will begin with the current 
number. When no direct request to discontinue at expiration of sub- 
scription is received, it is assumed thai a continuance of the subscription 
is desired. Advektisino Bates furnished on application. All com- 
munications should be addressed to 

THE DIAL, Fine Arts Building, Chicago. 

Entered as Second-Class Matter October 8, 1892, at the Post Office 
at Chicago, Illinois, under Act of March 3, 1879. 



No. 649. 



MAY 1, 1909. 



Vol. XLVI. 



CONTENTS. 

PAQB 

SWINBURNE , 281 

ROUSSEAU THE VAGABOND. Charles H. A. 

Wager 283 

CASUAL COMMENT 286 

French impressions of American newspapers. — 
A free library freely used. — The duplication of 
book-titles. — The advertising of " fake " books 
and book-schemes. — A bar to originality in author- 
ship. — The multiplicity of "book-fakes." — The 
wear and tear of public-library books. — Linear 
measurement applied to literature. — The final word 
in literary journalism. — Thrifty utilization of lit- 
erary material. — Buffalo's book-readers. — A little 
confosion of names. — An np-to-the-minate news 
service. 

COMMUNICATIONS 288 

Pennsylvania History in Poetry. Isaac S. Penny- 
packer. 
Education and the State. Duane Mowry. 

THE CARLYLE-WELSH LOVE-LETTERS. Percy 

F. Bicknell 290 

PSYCHOLOGY AND PSYCHOTHERAPY. Joseph 

Jastrow 292 

LORENZO THE MAGNIFICENT AND HIS TIME. 

P. A. Martin 294 

THE SEARCH FOR WHAT IS CLOSE AT HAND. 

Edward E. Hale, Jr 296 

LINCOLN'S LAST DAYS AND DEATH. Edwin 

E. Sparks 297 

BRIEFS ON NEW BOOKS 299 

The " parochial " Englishman. — Side-lights on the 
court of Queen Anne. — France and the French of 
to-day. — Pseudo-Japanese humor and nonsense. — 
A woman's diary of thirty-five years of European 
life. — A survey of education by a Japanese. — The 
world's most famous gardener. — Saunterings and 
observations in Northern Italy. 

BRIEFER MENTION 301 

NOTES 302 

TOPICS IN LEADING PERIODICALS .... 302 

LIST OF NEW BOOKS 303 



SWINBURNE. 



A world without poets — such, it seems, is 
the world in which we are henceforth to live, 
now that the last singer of the great line has 
left us. The Victorian glory was still ours as 
long as a single figure remained of the group 
that made the Victorian age memorable ; its sun 
has now set indeed, and there are no signs of a 
new sunrise to compare with that which flooded 
the heavens with light half a century or more 
ago. On the fifth of April Mr. Swinburne 
rounded out his seventy-second year ; five days 
later he had drawn his last breath. The 
" youngest singer " of the exquisite tribute paid 
in 1864 to Landor's memory had gradually, as 
his great contemporaries one by one passed away, 
himself come to be " the oldest singer that 
England bore," and the opening of the Twen- 
tieth century had revealed him standing in soli- 
tary preeminence, the sole poet of the first rank 
left to England, almost to the world. Now that 
he is gone, the best of those that remain seem 
ephemera, idle singers of empty days, voices 
ineffectual and unresonant. We must accept 
the situation. The whole inheritance of past 
English poetry is stiU ours, for counsel and in- 
spiration ; but new occasions, as they bring us 
new obligations and new needs, will find no poet 
to transmute their dross into spirit-gold by his 
wonder-working alchemy. 

A later generation will, we make no doubt, 
do Mr. Swinburne more substantial justice than 
has been done him by his contemporaries. 
Higher rank it can hardly give him than that 
already accorded by those who have really known 
his work in its entirety, but it is sure to bring 
a more wide-spread recognition than they have 
hitherto enjoyed of those superb qualities of 
profound thought and imaginative expression 
that are characteristic of his genius. By a very 
large part of the public, even of the public that 
genuinely cares for poetry, he is still thought of 
in the terms of a tradition that was fixed upon 
him in his early years, a tradition so distorted 
from the truth as to be nothing less than gro- 
tesque. Many people still, in sheer simplicity 
of ignorance, imagine wordiness and sensuality 
to be the essential attributes of his work. This 
estimate, as we have said elsewhere, " is a com 



282 



THE DIAL 



[Mayl, 



posite of hearsay, of superficial acquaintance 
with a few of the strays of his work, and of a 
legend based upon the sensational journalism of 
more than a generation ago." The charge of 
verbosity results from the fact that Swinburne 
" does not fling his learning at the reader in 
undigested lumps, but subordinates the exhibi- 
tion to the strictest law of artistic expression." 
As for the charge of sensualism, we can only 
say that to those who know him, Swinburne is 
" the poet who almost more than any of his 
fellow-singers exalts spirit above sense, and 
transports his readers into an atmosphere almost 
too rarefied for ordinary mortals to breathe." 

We urge these considerations, as we have 
many times urged them before, because in much 
that has been written about the poet even since 
his death the old stereotyped formulae have been 
applied to him, and the old ignorance of the 
totality of his production has been displayed. 
The perfunctory critic of Swinburne always 
begins by exalting him to the skies as a mel- 
odic wizard and artist in rhythmical effects, and 
then proceeds to deplore his morbid tendencies, 
his vacuity of thought, and his uncritical enthu- 
siasms. But all that was morbid in the " Poems 
and Ballads " of 1866 had been sloughed off, 
like a disease of youth, when the " Songs before 
Sunrise " were published in 1871, and Swin- 
burne has revealed himseK in many a subsequent 
volume of verse and prose both as a profound 
scholar and as a severe and serious thinker upon 
the gravest problems that confront the human 
intellect. As for his enthusiasms (and preju- 
dices), while we may admit that they are at 
times expressed with a vehemence that tends 
to weaken their effect, we must in all fairness 
admit also that they are supported by a wealth 
of knowledge and a cogency of reasoning that 
usually justify them in substance if not in form. 
There are few matters of judgment, literary or 
historical, moral or philosophical, in which he 
was not fundamentally right, and in face of that 
fact there is no cause for serious censure in the 
other fact that his pronouncements were colored 
by his temperament in a very unusual degree. 
Artificial restraint, and the affectation of a 
severely judicial manner, are qualities that do 
not contribute to the vis viva of criticism ; the 
qualities of exuberance and emotion have also 
their legitimate place, unless we deny to the art 
any element of the persuasive function. 

The amount of Swinburne's work is very 
great, and a large part of it has never been 
made easily accessible to the public, — a fact 
which accounts in considerable measure for the 



uninformed attitude toward it of the general 
reader. The volumes are about twoscore in 
number, many of them almost prohibitive in 
price, and some of them long out of print. Even 
the new collected edition fills eleven volumes, 
and includes none of the prose writings, which 
would fill as many more of equal size. Most 
people who claim acquaintance with Swinburne 
will be found, upon inquiry, to know little of 
him beyond the contents of the 1866 volume 
of "Poems and Ballads" that brought him 
notoriety rather than fame. The great odes, 
the magnificent series of lyrics dedicated to the 
cause of human freedom, the matchless elegies, 
the touching personal tributes, the tender songs 
of childhood, the superb narrative poems, and 
the noble sonnets, are alike unfamiliar to those 
who prate most confidently about his sound and 
fury, his undisciplined emotionalism, and his 
fleshly leanings . For a hundred who glibly quote 
" Dolores " and " Laus Veneris," there is hardly 
one who knows " Athens " and " Thalassius " 
and " The Armada " and " The Last Oracle " 
and " By the North Sea " and " Songs before 
Sunrise." Yet these are the works which make 
him one of the greatest of English poets ; the 
others are youthful indiscretions that we might 
easily spare. 

The dramatic poems of Swinburne's ripest 
creative period have suffered similar neglect. 
" Atalanta in Calydon " is well known ; the far 
nobler " Erechtheus " is ignored . The exuberant 
" Chastelard " was borne into favor upon the 
wave of the author's popularity when he made 
his startling appearance in the world of letters ; 
" BothweU " and " Mary Stuart," by reason of 
the very restraint and severity of their art, have 
not found one-tenth as many readers, although 
they are incomparably finer productions. The 
average student of our literature who is asked 
to name the author of " Marino Faliero' " will 
speak of Byron and learn with surprise that 
we owe to Swinburne a far greater treatment 
of the same theme. As for " Locrine " and 
" Rosamund," they are known to very few read- 
ers indeed. We do not expect the closet drama 
to become widely popidar under the present 
conditions of literary taste, but the greatest 
masterpieces in this kind that our age has pro- 
duced are deserving of more recognition than 
they have thus far obtained. They represent, 
in Swinburne's case, about half of his total 
achievement as a poet, and they may possibly 
prove to be the more enduring half. 

If Swinburne had given us no poetry at all, 
his prose alone would have distinguished him 



,1909.] 



THE DIAJ^ 



283 



as one of the most forceful writers of his time. 
It is prose of the most extraordinary richness 
and flexibility, concerned chiefly with the study 
of literature, but illuminating its judgments 
with a wealth of allusions drawn from the whole 
realm of the intellectual life. More evidently 
than his poetry, it refutes the laughable notion 
that Swinburne was without scholarship or the 
capacity for serious thought. In style it is far 
from admirable, being tortuous and involved, 
but those who thread its labyrinthine passages 
will be amply rewarded for their pains. The 
prose writings include special studies of Shake- 
speare, Jonson, Chapman, Blake, and Hugo, 
besides a volume on the Elizabethan dramatists, 
three volumes of miscellaneous essays, and sev- 
eral smaller books. They give us criticism of 
the most vital and penetrating sort, criticism 
that does not always satisfy the scientific fac- 
ulty, but that always succeeds in kindling the 
soul. A uniform collected edition of these 
prose writings is greatly to be desired. 

Algernon Charles Swinburne was born of 
aristocratic parentage on April 5,1837. He was 
educated at Eton and Balliol, but left Oxford 
without taking a degree. His first book was 
published in 1860, and the year after he made 
the visit to Italy which won for him Landor's 
friendship, and did much to determine the 
current of his poetical inspiration. The years 
1865-6 were the years in which " Atalanta " 
and the " Poems and Ballads " took an aston- 
ished world by storm. Practically the whole 
of his manhood life was spent in London, the 
last thirty years of it in the suburb of Putney, 
where he lived in the companionship of las 
closest friend, Mr. Theodore Watts-Dunton, 
and where he died on the tenth of last month. 
The comradeship thus ended is one of the most 
beautiful in literary history, and we trust that 
the surviving member of the household at " The 
Pines " may be prevailed upon to let the world 
into some of the secrets of the intimate relation 
that so long existed between the two friends. 



R USSEA U THE VA GABOND. 

" The thing that I most regret among the details 
of my life of which I have lost the memory is that I 
did not keep a journal of my travels," says Rousseau ; 
and this regret every reader of the " Confessions " 
has shared. The greatest of sentimentalists was 
also the prince of vagabonds — the inventor, Sainte- 
Beuve affirms, of le voyage pedestre. The stream of 
the " Confessions," too often turbid with distressing 
or shameful things, flows sometimes clean and fresh 



and sparkling through lovely levels, or lies quiet for 
a moment in deep and shady pools. Such is the de- 
scription of the journey that he made with his friend 
Bade from Turin to Annecy. He was eighteen, the 
protege of the Count de Gouvon, who was evidently 
ready to make the fortune of the homeless and pen- 
niless young adventurer. But Bade, the droll, the 
gay, the amusing, was about to walk to Geneva. 
Rousseau remembered how delightful had been the 
journey to Turin. In his thoughts, 
" The mountains, the meadows, the woods, the streams, 
the villages succeeded one another without end and always 
with new charms. What would it he when, to the joy of 
independence, should be added that of travelling with a 
good-humored comrade of my own age and taste, without 
worry, duty, constraint, or obligation to go on or stop, except 
as we liked ? One must be mad to sacrifice such luck to 
ambitious plans that are sl'ow, difficult, and uncertain of 
execution, and which, supposing them to be one day realized, 
would not in all their splendor be worth a quarter of an 
hour of true pleasure and freedom in youth." 

Only he who has no vagabondage in his soul will 
deny this ; and Rousseau never did. In spite of 
the suffering of mind and body that clouded the 
greater part of his life, he never had occasion to 
lament that his youth was dead within him. And 
so the two lads set out, their purses "lightly fur- 
nished," but their hearts " saturated with joy, 
thinking only of enjoying this wayfaring bliss," 
cette amhulante felicitS. They took with them a 
mechanical toy which was to help them get their 
living on the road, and allow them to prolong their 
travels indefinitely. WhUe this expectation proved 
to be ill-founded, the journey was almost as delightful 
as they had hoped ; and one regrets with Rousseau 
that he kept no detailed record of it. 

One regrets still more that there is no journal of 
his travels, this time on horseback, as secretary and 
interpreter to the " Greek archimandrite " who was 
seeking funds to rebuild the Holy Sepulchre. Wan- 
dering one day in the country about Neuchatel, where 
he was teaching music, he entered an inn at Boudry 
to dine. There he '' saw a man with a great beard, 
a violet coat of Greek fashion, a fur cap, and a suffi- 
ciently noble appearance and beai-ing," who was 
struggling to make himself understood in Italian. 
The young musician, with an eye for adventure, came 
to the rescue, joined the prelate at dinner, " and at 
the end of the meal we were inseparable." " With- 
out precaution, assurance, or knowledge, I gave 
myself up to his guidance — and behold me, the 
next day, on my way to Jerusalem ! " The end of 
this romanesque adventure was worthy of the begin- 
ning. After making, before the senate of Berne, 
the only good speech of his life, in his capacity as 
spokesman for the archimandrite, he was arrested 
at Soleure with his principal. The Greek disappears 
from the story ; but Rousseau, as usual, finds friends, 
who send him with a hundred francs in his pocket 
to seek his fortune at Paris. He writes : 

" I gave to this journey a fortnight, which I can coant 
among the happy days of my life. I was young, I was 
strong, I had enough money and much hope. I was travel- 
ling on foot, and alone. You might be surprised at my 



284 



THE DIAL 



[May 1, 



oonnting this an advantage if you were not already familiar 
-with my humor. My sweet fancies (chimeres) kept me com- 
pany, and never did the heat of my imagination produce 
more magnificent ones. . . . This time my ideas were mar- 
tial. ... I fancied that I saw myself already in an officer's 
coat and a fine white plume. My heart swelled at this 
noble idea. . . . However, as I came into the pleasant fields 
and saw the groves and brooks, this touching sight made me 
sigh with regret ; I felt in the midst of my glory that my 
heart was not made for so much tumult ; and soon, without 
knowing how, I found myself back among my dear sheep- 
folds, renouncing forever the toils of Mars." 

Few as these journeys were, a complete vaga- 
bond's manual may be compiled from the " Confes- 
sions " and illustrated from the temperament of its 
author. All the peculiar gifts and graces of the 
wanderer were his. The joys of the road at their 
purest and keenest he knew, and sang them in a 
prose that is all but lyrical. He was incorrigibly 
young, hopeful, imaginative. Wherever he was, he 
tells us, it was never far to the nearest Castle in 
Spain ; though his castles not seldom proved to have 
material foundations. He delighted in the open 
country and its life, and in the simplicity and friend- 
liness of humble folk. His temper always remained 
essentially rustic and unsophisticated, even after 
years of intimacy with the great. Beauty of land- 
scape appealed, of course, to a* taste that was in the 
strictest sense romantic. 

" I love to walk at my ease and to stop when I like. The 
wayfaring life, la vie ambulante, is what I demand. To 
make my way on foot, in fine weather, in a beautiful coun- 
try, without haste, and to have an agreeable object as my 
goal, this is the manner of life that is most to my taste. 
Moreover, you know already what I mean by beautiful 
country. Never did flat country, liowever beautiful, appear 
so to my eyes. I demand torrents, rocks, pines, black forests, 
mountains, rough roads to climb and descend, fearful preci- 
pices beside me." 

It is the younger Pliny, who says (of a boar-hunt, 
to be sure) that bodily activity stimulates the mind ; 
and Hazlitt is of the same opinion. " Give me," he 
writes, "the clear blue sky over my head, and the 
green turf under my feet, a winding road before 
me, and a three hours' march to dinner — and then 
to thinking ! It is hard if I cannot start some game 
on these lone heaths." Stevenson, the idler, dis- 
sents. His ideal is an " open-air drunkenness " that 
lays thought asleep, " that fine intoxication that . . . 
begins in a sort of dazzle and sluggishness of the 
brain, and ends in a peace that passes comprehen- 
sion." But Rousseau is of Pliny's mind, and Haz- 
litt's. He writes : 

" Never have I thought so much, existed so much, lived 
so much, been so much myself, as in those [journeys] that I 
have made alone and on foot. Walking, somehow, animates 
and kindles my ideas. I can hardly think, when I remain 
in one place. My body has to be in motion to start my 
mind. The view of the country, the succession of pleasant 
sights, the open air, the good appetite, the good health that 
I gain by walking, the freedom of an inn, the separation 
from everything that makes me feel my dependence, that 
recalls to me my situation, all this frees my soul, gives me 
a greater boldness of thought, throws me, somehow, into the 
immensity of things, to combine them, choose them, appro- 
priate them at will, without embarrassment and without 
fear. Like a master, I dispose of all nature. My heart, 
wandering from object to object, unites, identifies itself with 



those that please it, surrounds itself with charming images, 
becomes intoxicated with delicious feelings. If, in order 
to fix them, I amuse myself by mentally describing them, 
what vigor of pencil, what freshness of tint, what energy of 
expression I give them ! I am told that people have found 
all this in my works, even though written in my declining 
years. Ah, if they had seen those of my first youth, those 
that I made on my journeys — composed and never wrote ! 
Why not have written them ? you ask. And I reply. Why 
should I have written them ? Why deprive myself of the 
actual charm of enjoyment in order to tell others what I 
had enjoyed ? What mattered to me, readers, a public, on 
the earth, while I was soaring in the heavens ? Besides, 
did I carry pens and paper with me ? If I had thought of 
all that, nothing would have come to me. I did not foresee 
that I should have ideas. They come when they please, not 
when I please. They do not come at all, or they come in a 
crowd, overwhelming me with their number and their power. 
Ten volumes a day would not have sufficed. Where should 
I have found time to write them ? When I arrived, I thought 
only of dinner. When I went away, I thought only of a good 
walk. I felt that a new paradise awaited me at the door. 
I thought only of going to seek it." 

It is from revelations like this that we learn 
whence Rousseau drew the breadth and freshness 
of his thinking, where he found " the first fine care- 
less rapture " of his style. Into his books passed 
the simplicity, the passion, the serenity, the spon- 
taneity of nature. He became one of her voices ; 
through him she spoke to an urban cultivated society 
that sorely needed his ministrations. He had much 
of her frankness, too, her lack of shame, her toler- 
ance for the unclean. The " Confessions " is not 
the work of a fastidious man. It has no touch of 
the Rabelaisian temper, or of Sterne's complacent 
indecency. It speaks of tacenda, sometimes, to be 
sure, with physical disgust, but, on the whole, with a 
humorous acquiescence and a freedom from severity 
that are Nature's own. 

One touch in the passage last quoted is the very 
mark and sign manual of the vagabond, " the separa- 
tion from everything that makes me feel my depend- 
ence." " Oh ! " cries Hazlitt, " it is great to shake 
off the trammels of the world and of public opinion — 
to lose our importunate, tormenting, everlasting 
personal identity in the elements of nature, and 
become the creature of the moment, clear of all 
ties." Without this, what were youth and hope and 
imagination and a taste for the picturesque? If one 
must intrude upon boon Nature his petty cares for 
the morrow, he had better stick to his desk and copy 
his music to the end of his days. But if one can 
set forth as Rousseau did, with only his dear chi- 
meres for provision, to enter "the vast space of the 
world," confident that his merit will fill it ; if, friend- 
less in a strange city, one can regard twenty francs 
as an inexhaustible fortune, and dine superlatively 
well for five or six sous ; if, absolutely without 
resource in Paris, one can abandon oneself tran- 
quilly to one's indolence and the care of Providence, 
and, in order to give Him time to do His work, 
proceed to devour without haste one's few remain- 
ing louis, going to the play only twice a week, — if 
one can do these rare things, then one is indeed 
sealed of the tribe of vagabonds forevermore. There 
is a passage in the " Confessions " that should be 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



285 



made a test of fitness for all who aspire to initiation. 
Rousseau is at Lyons with little money and no 
friends, when he writes : 

" I preferred to spend the few sous that remained to me 
on bread rather than on shelter, because after all I was less 
in danger of dying for lack of sleep than for lack of food. 
The astonishing thing is that in this cruel state I was neither 
disturbed nor sad. I had not the least care for the future, 
and I awaited the answer that Madame de Chatelet was to 
receive, lying down under the stars, and sleeping stretched 
out on the earth or on a bench as quietly as on a bed of 
roses. I remember even having passed a delicious night 
outside the city, on a road that ran beside the Rhone or the 
Saone, I do not remember which. Terraced gardens bor- 
dered the road on the opposite side. The day had been very 
warm. The evening was charming. The dew moistened the 
dried grass. There was no wind. The night was still. The 
air was fresh without being cold. The sun, at its setting, 
had left in the sky red vapors whose reflection turned thei 
water rose-color. The trees of the terrace were filled with 
nightingales answering one another. I walked along in a 
sort of ecstasy, abandoning my senses and my heart to the 
joy of it all, and breathing only a sigh of regret that I was 
enjoying it alone. Absorbed in my sweet reverie, I pro- 
longed my walk far into the night without noticing that I 
was tired. At last I perceived it. I lay down voluptuously 
on the tablet of a kind of niche or false door sunk in a ter- 
race waU. Tree-tops formed the canopy of my bed. A 
nightingale was exactly above me. I went to sleep as he was 
singing. My sleep was sweet, my waking sweeter. It was 
broad day. As I opened my eyes, I saw the water, the 
verdure, an admirable landscape. I rose, shook myself. 
Hunger seized me, and I made my way gaily toward the 
town, resolved to spend on a good breakfast two pieces de 
six blancs that still remained to me. I was in such good 
humor that I went singing along the way." 

The song procured him, as usual, a dinner and a 
friend. Let all presumptive Knights of the Road 
read this — and emulate it if they can. 

Though there is doubtless a touch of self-com- 
placency in Rousseau's repeated allusions to his own 
indifference to money, he gave unmistakable proofs 
that the indifference was genuine. It was not that 
he simplified his life in accordance with a theory. 
His life was naturally simple and his wants few. 
To borrow Richard Holt Hutton's fine phrase, he 
had Wordsworth's " spiritual frugality." His pleas- 
ures were for the most part the rudimentary joys of 
men, though, being Rousseau and a sentimentalist, 
he made some demands of life that are not rudi- 
mentary : the perfection of friendship, for example, 
to choose an instance that is quite discreet. Through 
the whole unhappy story of his relations with men 
and women, though it is quite evident that he was a 
difficult friend, it is equally evident that he gave a 
far greater measure of devotion than he ever re- 
ceived ; and late in life we find him, pathetically 
enough, expressing the fear that in making friend- 
ship the idol of his heart, he had spent his life in 
sacrificing to chimeres. Yet, after all, the funda- 
mental Rousseau is the^ Rousseau of the following 
passage, which describes the beginning of his life 
with Th^rese : 

" If our pleasures could be described, their siiftplicity 
would make you laugh : our walks together out of town, in 
the course of which I magnificently spent eight or ten sous 
at some public house ; our little suppers at the casement of 
my window, seated opposite each other on two little chairs 



placed on a trunk that filled the width of the embrasure. 
In this situation, the window served as a table, we breathed 
the air, we could see our surroundings, and the passers-by. 
. . . Who will describe, who will feel the charm of these 
suppers, composed only of a quarter-loaf of coarse bread, 
some cherries, a bit of cheese, and a half setter of wine, which 
we both drank ? Friendship, confidence, intimacy, gentle- 
ness of soul, how delicious is your seasoning ! Sometimes we 
remained there till midnight, without suspecting the hour." 

This is the Rousseau who introduced into French 
literature what Sainte-Beuve calls " the sentiment of 
domestic life." And while this sentiment is not 
ordinarily associated in our minds with vagabond 
tastes, in Rousseau's case the two instincts were 
naturally and closely connected. A man who took 
his pleasure so frugally, who got so much from so 
little, provided only that it was seasoned with friend- 
ship and intimacy, who had an inexhaustible interest 
in people of all classes, and an evident faculty of 
winning their interest and confidence in return, such 
a man is at home anywhere, and finds "the senti- 
ment of domestic life " in even more unexpected 
places than a fourth floor apartment in Paris. He 
found it, for example, in the unfurnished lazaretto 
at Genoa, where he spent two weeks quite alone, 
while the vessel on which he had sailed to Italy was 
in quarantine. He tells us that he made a bed of 
his clothing, used his trunks for chair and table, 
arranged his paper, inkstand, and a dozen books, 
and declared himself absolutely comfortable. In 
spite of the self-consciousness that lurks in the nar- 
rative, it is refreshingly free from any assumption 
of Spartan virtue. Being a man of simple tastes, 
he good-humoredly makes the best of circumstances. 
Why pose as a philosopher ? 

Except so far as a diseased imagination fettered 
his free spirit, he was the prince of vagabonds to the 
end of his days, — "a chartered libertine." When at 
forty he " determined to pass in independence and 
poverty the little time that remained to live," he pro- 
ceeded to lay aside forever everything that seemed 
to him inconsistent with his chosen manner of 
life. As he sold his watch, he exclaimed : " Thank 
Heaven, I shall never again need to know what time 
it is ! " Of all possible reflections on the occasion, 
this is surely the most characteristic of the vagabond 
temper. Charles H. A. Wager. 



CASUAL COMMENT. 



French impressions of American news- 
papers, of which we have already given a sample 
or two, are not always wholly favorable. M. Emile 
Deschamps, writing in " La Revue," stigmatizes our 
daily press as inferior in literary quality, lacking or- 
derly arrangement in make-up, and unduly devoted 
to the interests of advertisers and advertisement- 
readers. Some of his strictures are undeniably 
wholesome. In France, we are told, writing is an 
art; but in America people write as they talk. 
" Style is in disgrace ; it is accused of retarding or 
obscuring or wholly masking the thought. Accord- 



286 



THE DIAL 



[May 1, 



ing to the Americans, we Frenchmen waste precious 
time in word-hunting. Euphony counts for nothing 
with them ; it is not appreciated." Again, the 
higgledy-piggledy arrangement of matter in our 
newspapers is censured, as it should be. Who has 
not been driven to the verge of wicked language by 
the difficulty of finding a news item or other article 
that he has reason to believe is somewhere in the 
paper, or that he has himself already seen and 
wishes to consult again ? The editorials constitute 
about the only matter that one feels reasonably sure 
of being able to find readily. " But these trifling 
items," continues the critic after some pretty gener- 
ous slashing, " are as nothing compared with the 
great trashiness of American journalism. Trash 
you may find in the newspapers of all countries, 
but in this respect the land of Uncle Sam (and of 
the canard) leads all the rest." However, a word of 
comfort and of hope is vouchsafed us at the very end. 
Journalism is in endless evolution, " and while the 
French press seems at present to feel the influence 
of American exuberance, the American press is here 
and there developing a tendency to conform to the 
standards of European journalism." But the sal- 
vation of the newspaper must be sought in raising 
"the intellectual lever of the public it addresses." 
• • • 

A FREE LIBRARY FREELY USED presents an agree- 
able spectacle to gods and men, especially to that 
portion of the latter who are connected with its 
management. The Free Public Library of East 
Orange, New Jersey, is conducted on principles of 
exceeding liberality, and is used, not abused, by a 
notably large proportion of the denizens of that fair 
city. Some items of significance arrest the eye in 
the library's Sixth Annual Report. Mr. James Duff 
Brown, the well-known London librarian, recently 
called attention to the large proportion of book- 
borrowers in East Orange. That proportion last 
year (excluding "dead registration" and counting 
only the actual borrowers within the twelve months) 
was nearly one-third of the entire population — a 
fraction far larger than the greater cities can report. 
In freedom of borrowing the East Orangeites are 
unusually favored: with the exception of current 
fiction, works in special demand, and recent period- 
icals, they are allowed to draw at one time as many 
books as they wish and to keep them as long as any 
reasonable person could possibly wish — four weeks, 
with privilege of renewal if not called for by anyone 
else. Even reference books, those fixtures of most 
library reading-rooms, " may be borrowed for over 
night, or over Sunday, as at such times no one is 
deprived of their use." A telephone inquiry depart- 
ment, similar to that at Cardiff which we recently 
described, is in successful operation, and has answered 
questions of an astonishing amplitude of range. Fin- 
ally, and this is the most admirable of all, the readers 
themselves do a large part of the book-selecting and 
book-reviewing required for intelligent purchase of 
new works. " Co-operation is the order of the day," 



observes the librarian. " Why should it not be 
applied in a city's library ? " Happy indeed is that 
city whose citizens number such competent critics 
as appear to be found in considerable numbers in 
East Orange. 

The duplication of book-titles has given rise 
to some correspondence, aggrieved or expostulatory 
on the one side, and apologetic on the other, in an 
English literary journal. Canon Vaughan permits 
himself to feel a little injured because Mr. S. C. 
Gayford has written a book and named it "Life 
After Death," regardless of the earlier appearance 
of a work thus entitled from the Canon's pen. Mr. 
Gayford avers in self-defense that he was utterly 
unaware of this earlier book's existence — which 
perhaps makes his crime all the blacker in Canon 
Vaughan's eyes. A recent book bears the not strik- 
ingly original title, " The End of the Middle Age," 
and Mr. T. Fisher Unwin takes occasion to remind 
the public, but in no injured tone of voice, that some 
years ago he published a book by Mme. Duclaux 
called "The End of the Middle Ages." It is a 
puzzling question how far the moral copyright ( legal 
copyright would seem to be out of the question) ought 
to extend in protection of exclusive rights to titles. 
A recent "Atlantic " article has acquainted us with 
the far-sighted self-interest of a successful soap- 
manufacturer in preempting, by legal means, some 
hundreds of attractive and desirable names for soap, 
thus excluding much dangerous rivalry. Titles for 
future novels no popular writer has yet seriously 
demanded the privilege of appropriating, to the 
embarrassment of his fellow-novelists ; and only very 
distinctive and original titles could put forth any 
plausible claim for protection. But as books mul- 
tiply and the domain of unused names suffers 
increasing shrinkage, the question here touched 
upon may become something more than a purely 
academic one. • • . 

The advertising of " fake " books and book- 
schemes is usually done through circulars and the 
lower order of periodicals ; but frequently, we are 
sorry to say, it appears in otherwise reputable maga- 
zines. We noted recently in " Current Literature " 
a full-page announcement headed, in large type, 
" Stevenson's Complete Works at a Bargain." The 
phrase " complete works " is repeated several times 
in the course of the advertisement, and we are told 
that " now for the first time is presented to the count- 
less admirers of Stevenson the opportunity of pos- 
sessing his famous works in form worthy of the 
author's genius." Comparison of the printed list of 
contents with the contents of the authorized copy- 
right edition of Stevenson issued by the Messrs. 
Scribner shows that this " complete edition " contains 
in actuality something over half of Stevenson's pub- 
lished writings. In its fraudulent claims this adver- 
tisement is hardly more than typical of the numerous 
announcements of " editions de grande luxe," " pub- 
lishers' remainders," the " exclusive sale " of some 
time-honored plug of the book-jobber, " world's 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



287 



greatest extracts," and other literary junk, which 
confront us shamelessly in many of our prominent 
magazines. It is not likely that bucket shops, medi- 
cal "specialists," lotteries, astrologists, etc., would 
be permitted by these magazines to prey upon their 
subscribers ; yet the hook swindler, no matter how 
barefaced his pretensions, seems never to be barred. 
Perhaps the most effective way of bringing about a 
reform would be for reputable book publishers to 
refuse to advertise in periodicals that lend their pages 
to the exploitation of " fake " book schemes. 

• • • 

A BAR TO ORIGIISrALITY IN AUTHORSHIP is the 

reading of current fiction. Distinction of style can- 
not thus be cultivated, nor will depth of thought be 
developed. Mr. John Trevena, the Dartmoor novel- 
ist, whose stories are gaining an international repute, 
appears to lead a secluded life in his Dartmoor 
retreat, shunning not only his fellow-workers in lit- 
erature, but also their literary works. He cannot 
see how it is possible for a writer to be original if 
he reads the books of the day. He is said to be a 
good classical scholar, and to have a good classical 
library — which he reads. The newspapers he does 
not disdain, fop in them he thinks the life of a coun- 
try and real human nature are to be found. The 
village people about him, too, he studies with care, 
and no one has depicted the Dartmoor manners and 
customs and inhabitants so faithfully. From his 
publishers' account of him it appears that "when 
working he often retires to a lonely little cottage on 
the top of a hill with a fine view of the tors. There 
he lives absolutely alone with his dogs, doing his own 
cooking and housework for months together. Often 
he does not speak to anyone for over a week. He 
seems to be a source of some terror to the nearest 
village, as the people, who are still superstitious, 
regard him as a magician." Physical frailty as 
well as natural inclination seems to have imposed 
the simple life on Mr. Trevena, who declares, char- 
acteristically : " My aim above all is to preach not 
so much kindliness as ordinary justice towards 
animals ; and to remind men and women that they 
are animals too." , , , 

The multiplicity of " book-fakes " indicates 
the continuance of prosperity in those deleterious 
forms of commercial rather than literary activity. 
These schemes are of infinite variety as to form and 
method, but are animated by the same spirit — the 
spirit of fake and humbug. Their dependence is 
largely upon their boldness. Their credulous victims, 
" fed on boundless hopes " of stupendous bargain- 
chances special to their case, pay enormous prices for 
cheap or worthless books, and " spurn the simpler 
fare " offered by the bookstores, where far better 
editions may be had at a fraction of the " bargain " 
prices. The notorious twenty thousand dollar 
swindle perpetrated last year near Chicago heads 
the list of these adventures ; but there are others 
hardly less barefaced. The latest that has come to 
our notice is one wherein " a large building lot " in 



" the prettiest Summer resort in Southern California, 
just a short ride from Los Angeles," is offered free 
to subscribers to a work " in thirty-one beautiful vol- 
umes " in which has been gathered " all that is worth 
preserving of the literature, the science and art of 
the world " ! A work so wonderful would be cheap 
at any price — building lot or no building lot. 

• • • 

The wear and tear of public-library books 
almost passes belief. For example, the Buffalo lib- 
rary was obliged last year to withdraw (and, we 
infer, replace with new copies) 21,148 volumes, or 
nearly ten per cent of the total number of books in 
its possession. It must have been the case with 
many of these discarded books that, though too 
shabby for circulation or even for rebinding, they 
were still readable and in a condition to prove accept- 
able gifts to hospitals, asylums, mining camps, 
prisons, forest-dwellers, sailing-ship crews, night- 
watchmen, or other persons of enforced leisure and 
blessed with more appetite for reading than the 
wherewithal to satisfy it. The current report of the 
Minnesota Public Library Commission has a para- 
graph pertinent to this matter. " Each year a num- 
ber of lumber camps throughout the state are given 
a supply of reading matter. Boxes are filled with 
books which have been withdrawn from the travel- 
ling libraries for various reasons, and which are in 
readable but short-lived condition, and with popular, 
illustrated magazines from the clearing house. Only 
books of live interest are sent, and these are varied 
to appeal to different tastes. In the past two years 
36 camps have been supplied, and in this way 478 
books and 1159 magazines were distributed." There 
are doubtless many neglected opportunities for this 
sort of benefaction in both city and country. 

• • • 

Linear measurement applied to literature 
is something novel and a little amusing. Whether 
a certain distinguished man did or did not recently 
assert that a shelf five feet long would hold all 
the books needed to impart a liberal education, or 
whether, if he did say this, it was but in a semi- 
jocose mood, is not of supreme importance. That 
this casual seed of suggestion should have produced 
a crop of world's-best-book-lists from numerous 
quarters is what might have been expected. The 
drawing-up of such a list, ruler in hand, is a rather 
fascinating exercise, and not the less so that prob- 
ably no two persons could be found to agree in their 
choice. Nevertheless the shelf might be filled in 
such wise as to leave no room for criticism. No one 
as yet has hit upon the idea, so here it is : Take a 
many-volumed edition of Shakespeare — if one of 
the requisite proportions cannot be found, let it be 
manufactured — and fill therewith your five-foot 
shelf; and if you have not then five feet of the 
world's very best literature, what have you, one 
would like to know. And if its faithful perusal does 
not liberalize the mind, the reader must be regarded 
as an all but hopeless case. 



288 



THE DIAL 



[May 1, 



The final word in literaby journalism is, 
it seems, about to be uttered. A Boston publisher 
who (if we may believe his letter-head) is already 
engaged in issuing no less than six periodicals, de- 
voted to such seemingly various yet perhaps not 
wholly unrelated subjects as Inebriety, Bridge 
Whist, Occultism, Abnormal Psychology, and Skat, 
finds still some spare moments upon his hands, and 
these he intends to dedicate to a new " bi-monthly 
magazine of Belles Lettres." " For fifteen years," 
he tells us, "I have watched American magazines — 
particularly literary magazines, and I know what will 
interest and what will not." Happy mortal ! An- 
other paragraph in his announcement outlines this 
gloomy picture of conditions just previous to what 
in after years will probably be termed the Taxidean 
■Americana period of literary journalism : " There 
is no adequate literary review in the country. ' The 
Dial ' is the nearest approach, and that is a list too 
ponderous. Years ago there was ' The Book Buyer ' 
which was excellent, but that was discontinued ; 
then there was 'The Critic' and 'The Bookman,' 
neither so interesting as ' The Book Buyer ' but still 
readable, now they are both general magazines." 
That " list too ponderous " is indeed a heavy indict- 
ment, — though we confess to some haziness regard- 
ing its exact meaning. 

• • • 

Thrifty utilization of literary material 
is one of Mr. J. M. Barrie's virtues, or vices, as 
a writer. When an American lady twitted him 
recently on his tendency to repeat himself in the 
matter of jokes, the novelist-playwright laughed and 
said his nationality was to blame. " I am a Scot," 
he explained, " and we Scots abhor waste." He 
then asked his interlocutor if she had ever heard 
of old Saunders Carlyle, who always drank off his 
whiskey to the last drop the very instant it was 
poured out for him. When asked why he gulped 
it down so greedily, the old man replied that he had 
once had his glass knocked over between the filling 
and the drinking. An even better illustration of 
thriftiness than Mr. Barrie's could be adduced in 
the economical but not exactly close-fisted Yankee 
who always took his seat in church near the door, 
where the contribution box in its rounds would 
reach him last, his motive being to lose as little in- 
terest as possible on his donation. 

Buffalo's book-readers appear to appreciate 
their public library, which even the casual visitor 
will remember as one of the best-equipped and most 
active in the country. Its energetic work among 
young readers, in the children's department and in 
the schools, is worthy of notice. The current annual 
report has three full-page illustrations of some of 
our potentially great men and women (scholars, 
writers, scientists, publicists ) of the future engrossed 
in the absorbing occupation of choosing a book, or 
clustering in an eager group over the open pages of 
a favorite volume. The Saturday morning story 
hour is reported to be so popular that the entertain- 



ment often has to be repeated for the benefit of the 
overflow. But we are assured that "it is far more 
than a pastime for the hour, and is legitimate library 
work, which should be greatly extended." The 
crowded condition of the children's room suggests 
the providing of an " intermediate department " for 
a somewhat older class of readers, and it is hoped 
that the experiment may be tried this year. Note- 
worthy and praiseworthy is the Buffalo children's 
appetite for non-fiction, which embraces forty-five 
per cent of their total book-drawings. This record 
puts to shame the average book-reading adult. 

• • • 

A LITTLE CONFUSION OF NAMES, which annually 
recurs at about this season, brings forth with like reg- 
ularity the explanation that the IngersoU lectureship 
at Harvard on " The Immortality of Man " is not in 
memory of the late Colonel Robert G. IngersoU, but 
was founded by Miss Caroline IngersoU in 1893 in 
obedience to the instructions and in the name of her 
deceased father, George G. IngersoU, a Harvard 
graduate. The choice of lecturer, not limited to any 
one denomination or profession, has already fallen 
on men distinguished in various walks of science and 
literature. This year it was the good fortune of 
those in attendance to hear Mr. G. Lowes Dickinson 
present his views on the general theme — the exact title 
of his discourse being, " Is Immortality Desirable ? " 
The May number of the " Atlantic " publishes this 
welcome contribution of a scholarly and original 
thinker on a subject of almost universal interest. 

• • • 

An UP-TO-THE-MINUTE NEWS SERVICE is enjoyed 
by the people of that semi-oriental, one is tempted to 
say semi-somnolent, historic old city on the Danube, 
Budapest. The telephone, not the printing-press, 
is made the medium of an almost hourly transmis- 
sion of news items, — stock-quotations, weather- 
forecast, parliamentary doings, closing prices on the 
exchange, extraordinary events, and so on; while 
toward evening there follows a music programme 
from caf6 or beer-garden, and later the subscriber 
can enjoy an opera from the Royal Opera House or 
listen to the dialogue of a play that is being pre- 
sented at one of the theatres. And all this the 
fortunate Budapest citizen, reclining at ease in 
dressing-gown and slippers, can obtain for about 
what the rest of the world pays for its daUy paper. 
There are some things, it appears, that the enter- 
prising West can still learn from the effete East. 



COMMUNICA TIONS. 



PENNSYLVANIA HISTORY IN POETRY. 
(To the Editor of The Dial.) 
Mr. Burton E. Stevenson, in a letter printed in The 
Dial of April 1, says that he knows of no poetry in- 
spired by the civilization of Pennsylvania suitable for 
his recently-published anthology entitled "Poems of 
American History." 

Years ago I made a collection of historical poems 
from which, from time to time, either by request or other- 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



289 



wise, I have sent selections to compilers of various anthol- 
ogies. It would have given me pleasure to forward to 
Mr. Stevenson, along with other poems relating to the 
history of New Jersey and Pennsylvania and several ref- 
erences to certain private and printed collections, which 
I sent him, a clue to a number of poems by poets of wide 
fame called forth by the civilization of Pennsylvania. 
Whether these poems would have proved suitable for 
his collection would depend I think upon the compiler's 
willingness to throw open that closed shutter of the mind 
which should have looked out upon the broad field of 
Pennsylvania history. It would be strange indeed if 
the colony and commonwealth which led the way in the 
great changes of the criminal law, in religious tolera- 
tion, in the founding of charities and the human uplift 
in so many directions, which early became the American 
centre of literature, law, medicine, and science, and 
within whose borders are the birthplace of the Declara- 
tion of Independence and the Constitution, Valley Forge 
and the battlefields of Brandywine, Germantown, and 
Gettysburg, had called forth no poetry suitable for an 
anthology of historical poems. 

The internal evidence supplied by Mr. Stevenson's 
compilation itself raises a doubt as to whether his plea of 
unfamiliarity with the poetry relating to Pennsylvania 
is entirely frank. Can it be possible, for instance, that 
he did not know of Wordworth's sonnets upon the 
founding of the Episcopacy in the American branch of 
the Church of England and their tribute to Bishop White 
of Pennsylvania, — « the Saintly White," Wordsworth 
calls him? The figure of Bishop White is a large one 
in the religious history of America. The founding of 
the Episcopacy was an important historical event, and 
as a poet Wordsworth seems to meet with Mr. Steven- 
son's partial approval. For, though these interesting 
sonnets are missing from his book, the accompanying 
sonnets by the same poet, printed side by side with them 
in the poet's works, but relating to the New England 
section of the country, of which the compiler is a native, 
are present. It is difficult to reach any other conclusion 
than that Mr. Stevenson chose the one set of Words- 
worth's sonnets and rejected the other set, and his plea 
of unfamiliarity, therefore, would seem to fall to the 
ground. 

There is another sonnet by Wordsworth addressed 
" To the Pennsylvanias." It mingles praise of Pemi 
and the early times with censure of the financial straits 
in which Pennsylvania found herself for a period in the 
first half of the nineteenth century because of her en- 
thusiasm in making canals and other internal improve- 
ments. The historical significance of the sonnet is too 
important to be ignored. Although Mr. Stevenson dis- 
claims familiarity with it, I think he is entitled to the 
benefit of the doubt. 

When Joseph Priestly, the discoverer of oxygen, in 
the year 1794 sought refuge in Pennsylvania from the 
violence of an intolerant English mob, which had pil- 
laged his house and scattered his scientific apparatus, 
another famous English poet, Coleridge, addressed him 
a sonnet inspired by Priestly's expatriation. It might 
be thought that this sonnet would have interested a 
native of New England because of Dr. Priestly's promi- 
nence as a Unitarian, if for no other reason. 

The Wyoming Massacre inspired still another English 
poet, Thomas Campbell, to write " Gertrude of Wyo- 
ming," inaccurate as to its ornithology and in some other 
respects, but sufficiently accurate in the spirit of its 
description of the actual massacre. The American poet 



Fitz Greene Halleck also wrote a poem on Wyoming, 
several of his lines showing that there was a greater 
familiarity with Campbell's poem in New York in the 
nineteenth century than there would appear to be in 
Ohio in the twentieth, for Halleck says: 

"Nature hath made thee lovelier than the power 
Even of Campbell's pen hath pictured." 
Byron in " Don Juan " gives two stanzas to the Penn- 
sylvania poem, but there is no extract from either the 
English poem or the American poem in " Poems of 
American History." 

Thomas Moore left as a record of his life in Phila- 
delphia, where tradition says he occupied a cottage ou 
the banks of the Schuylkill, a poem which for its bear- 
ing upon social and literary history was as much entitled 
to a place in Mr. Stevenson's book as was Halleck's 
tribute to Drake or many another included in the an- 
thology. 

Of the many historical poems relating to Pennsylvania 
only a very few, and most of these of minor historical 
significance, are to be found in " Poems of American 
History." Buchanan Read's " The Treaty Elm," cele- 
brating Penn's famous treaty with the Indians, "the 
treaty never sworn to and never broken," is missing. So 
is the same author's spirited description of the cele- 
brated " Meschianza," the entertainment given in Phil- 
adelphia during the British occupation, for which Major 
Andre acted as a designer. Absent, too, is any extract 
from George H. Boker's patriotic poem delivered before 
the Phi Beta Kappa Society of Harvard in 1865. Bayard 
Taylor's poem on the battle of Brandywine is missing. 
A half dozen poems on Bennington are given, but there 
is room for only one relating to that spot of holy ground 
of which the orator said " Lips in every language have 
lisped the name of Valley Forge." 

From the fields of his local preference Mr. Stevenson 
has garnered with care and enthusiasm. He appears to 
have rushed through Pennsylvania history in an auto- 
mobile driven beyond the speed limit, seeing little beyond " 
his own roadway. 

Mr. Stevenson's suggestion that Whittier's poem 
" The Pennsylvania Pilgrim " was too long for his pur- 
pose is not warranted by the brevity of the lofty address 
to posterity by Francis Daniel Pastorius written in 1688, 
which consists of twenty-three lines. Whittier's poem 
readily lends itself to the making of such extracts as the 
compiler took from long New England poems. More- 
over, Whittier wrote many short poems inspired by 
Pennsylvania civilization. One of the best of them, one 
of the best short poems the Quaker poet ever wrote, is 
his " Hymn of the Dunkers," in which, while historical 
fact is reflected in verse with unusual art, the poet made 
unwitting return for the service rendered by one of the 
Brethren to the Continental Congress in translating at 
their request the Declaration of Independence into most 
of the languages of Europe. 

Charles Godfrey Leland of Philadelphia says that his 
inimitable creation, " Hans Breitmann," was suggested 
by a trooper of a Pennsylvania cavalry regiment. In the 
Breitmann ballads Leland preserved with humor, phil- 
osophy, learning, and spirit an interesting phase of civil 
war life. The reader not unnaturally asks, why is then 
given the ballad about Dawes and nothing from Breit- 
mann? If we assume that Mr. Stevenson's book has 
some other purpose than that implied by the title, even 
if his compilation were primarily intended for use in 
schools such purpose makes even more noticeable the 
omission of Leland's poem beginning: 



290 



THE DIAL 



[May 1, 



" One day when I was on the march 

In eighteen hundred and sixty-three, 

The very day when General Meade 

Was driving General Lee 

Before him out of Maryland." 
The poem describes Leland's visit, while on the inarch 
from Gettysburg, to an empty schoolhouse, where a Con- 
federate on the advance into Pennsylvania, had written 
a boasting sentence upon the blackboard. Under it 
Leland inscribed a witty Latin phrase, and 

" No doubt it pleased the schoolmaster 
When he returned again." 
This poem would seem to be one of special interest to 
young people still engaged in school work. 

Mr. Stevenson's explanation of certain irregularities 
in his book does not call for extended comment. The 
term " Federals " was applied to the Northern troops by 
the Southern people and their European friends. The 
Northern soldiers were fighting for the preservation of 
the union; they called themselves Union soldiers, and 
they have not since ceased to prefer the term chosen by 
themselves to the one conferred upon them by their 
opponents. The citation of authority for the errors of 
the note upon the ballad, " Keenan's Charge," will not 
greatly impress anyone familiar with Civil War history. 
As has been indicated, an anthology of bulk and 
poetic excellence could readily be compiled from the 
historical poems inspired by Pennsylvania civilization 
said by Mr. Stevenson to be unknown to him. 

Isaac R. Pennypacker. 
Haddonfield, N. J., April 20, 1909. 



EDUCATION AND THE STATE. 
(To the Editor of The Dial.) 

Your discussion of " Home Rule and Public Educa- 
tion," in The Dial of April 16, is an interesting and 
hopeful sign of these entirely too material times. When 
you say that " it has been the recognized duty of the 
State to see that the means of education are provided 
for its youthful citizens," you state what cannot be suc- 
cessfully controverted. But if you were to add that this 
" recognized duty " has always been religiously dis- 
charged, you would find a large army of dissenters. 
The truth of the matter is that the " duty " has been too 
often transferred to " the local community," and this, in 
turn, refuses " the needed financial support." While 
the principle is well fixed in our American institutions, 
its practical workings have not met the expectations of 
those who firmly adhere to the belief that, in a repre- 
sentative government, the only true education is that 
which is furnished by the State. All others are par- 
tial, one-sided, and incomplete. So, when you assert 
that " education is the function of the State, not of the 
coimty, or town, because it is a matter too essential to 
the common welfare to be left to the caprice of the 
locality," I feel like exclaiming: Amen and Amen! For 
in that you have stated what ought to be conceded uni- 
versally, but which many well-meaning citizens have yet 
to appreciate. Nevertheless, the emphasis which you 
give to public education as a State function is well put 
and is greatly needed in this country at this very moment. 
As a school officer, I have seen the need of constant 
repetition of this important and valuable truth. Indeed, 
it cannot be brought home to the individual and the 
community too often. Duane Mowry. 

Milwaukee, Wis., April 23, 1909. 



^\t g^to g00ks. 



The CARLYLE-WELiSH liOVE-IjETTERS.* 



In view of Carlyle's vehemently expressed 
desire that the sanctities of his domestic life 
should never be profaned by biographer's pen, 
it is a curious freak of destiny that has caused 
his marital relations and all his home privacies 
to be more minutely and relentlessly pried into 
and laid open and publicly discussed than those 
of almost any other famous personage in the 
world's history. And in all this peeking and 
prying and gossiping there has necessarily been 
more tlian a little of misrepresentation, of innu- 
endo, and even of scandal, until by this time 
the public ought to be in that reactionary mood 
which will make acceptable and easily credible 
a saner, soberer, less sensationally dramatic 
presentment of the gifted dyspeptic and his 
talented wife in their mutual relations and their 
daily life. 

It is largely in the hope of righting past 
wrongs — wrongs that he lays primarily at the 
door of Carlyle's biographer — that Mr. Alex- 
ander Carlyle now publishes, in approximate 
completeness, " The Love Letters of Thomas 
Carlyle and Jane Welsh," in two volumes uni- 
form with the " New Letters," which he has 
already edited from the pens of both. Of this 
pre-matrimonial correspondence, which Carlyle 
expressly wished to remain unpublished, the 
editor writes in his preface : " The holy of 
holies having been sacrilegiously forced, dese- 
crated, and polluted, and its sacred relics de- 
faced, besmirched, and held up to ridicule, any 
further intrusion therein — for the purpose of 
cleansing and admitting the purifying air and 
light of heaven — can now be attended, in the 
long rim, by nothing but good results." His 
present task, therefore, is but a continuation 
and, one may hope, a completion of what was 
begun in the earlier publication of the carefully 
annotated " New Letters," — the correcting, 
namely, of false reports, and the silencing of 
mischievous gossip. In characteristic style he 
vents a little of his bottled-up wrath upon poor 
Froude and his unspeakable Froudacities. To 
some of us in whose veins there runs no drop 
of Carlyle blood it almost seems as if that 
strangely irresponsible but highly entertaining, 
even inspiring, writer of biography and history 
had already been sufficiently castigated for his 

* The Love-Letters of Thomas Carlyle and Jane Welsh. 
Edited by Alexander Carlyle, M.A. In two volumes. Illustrated. 
New York : John Lane Co. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



291 



sins and might by this time be suffered to rest 
in peace as the helpless victim of unaccountable 
prepossessions and fixed ideas. 

Let us now dip into the letters themselves 
and allow them to tell their own story. Only 
four days after his first call, under Irving's 
escort, on Mrs. Welsh and her daughter at 
Haddington, young Carlyle wrote his opening 
letter, in semi-sentimental vein, to the owner of 
the bright eyes that seem to have pierced his 
armor at the very first glance. Amorous impet- 
uosity on his part, and maidenly reserve amount- 
ing even to coldness and severity on hers, are, 
naturally enough, plainly in evidence in the first 
few letters. But the suitor was not so blinded 
by his passion as to fail to perceive that a 
woman's No is not always to be literally inter- 
preted. Chilly silence and harsh rebuffs did not 
discourage him ; and before the first eighteen 
months of the five years' wooing were over, the 
two had arrived at a more than friendly footing, 
and thenceforward there was little but smooth- 
ness to the course of their true love. A few 
sentences from Miss Welsh's third letter must 
here be quoted. After thanking her corre- 
spondent for a book he had sent her, the writer 
proceeds : 

" I have moreover read your Letter. For it I do not 
thank you. It afforded me neither pleasure nor amuse- 
ment. Indeed, my Friend, this Letter of yours has, to 
my mind, more than one fault. I do not allude to its 
being egotistical. To speak of oneself is, they say, a 
privilege of Friendship. . . . But there is about it an 
air of levity which I dislike ; which seems to me to form 
an unnatural union with the other qualities of your head 
and heart, and to be ill-timed in treating of a subject to 
you the most important of all subjects — your own 
Destiny. . . . Besides this there is about your Letter a 
mystery which I detest. It is so full of meaning words 
miderlined; meaning sentences half-finished; meaning 
blanks with notes of admiration ; and meaning quotations 
from foreign languages, that really in this abundance of 
meaning it seems to indicate, I am somewhat at a loss 
to discover what you would be at. I know how you will 
excuse yourself on this score: You will say that you 
knew my Mother would see your Letter; and that, of 
course, you cared not to what difficulties I as Interpreter 
might be subjected, so that you got your feelings toward 
me expressed. Now Sir, once for all, I beg you to 
understand that I dislike as much as my Mother dis- 
approves your somewhat too ardent expressions of 
Friendship towards me; and that if you cannot write 
to me as to a man who feels a deep interest in your 
welfare, who admires your talents, respects your virtues, 
and for the sake of these has often, — perhaps too often, 
overlooked your faults ; — if you cannot write to me as 
if — as if you were married, you need never waste ink 
or paper on me more." 

Let us now see in what temper the rebuked 
lover replies to this. He shows himself pos- 
sessed of a certain self-respecting good-nature 



that is not easily ruffled. His letter begins as 
follows : 

" I have read your Letter over and over ; and ad- 
mired the talent displayed in it not a little. I have a 
small, exceedingly small vein of satire myself: but there 
is no need to conjecture whether it would serve to de- 
fend me in the present instance: you know well enough 
I dare not try. It was once reckoned generous, I be- 
lieve, to ' crush the haughty, but spare those who cannot 
resist ' ; — however I do not complain. This conflict of 
sarcasms can hardly gratify or punLsh any very noble 
feeling in either you or me; and I am content to have 
my vanity humbled since you wish it so." 

Pass on now to a date less than two years 
later, and mark the tone in which the once 
haughtily reserved damsel meets her wooer's 
advances. The letter is dated " Hell [meaning 
Templand, the home of the writer's maternal 
grandfather], 19th August [1823]," and begins 
in this delightfully cordial fashion : 

" Your last Letter was especially welcome : it came 
in a lucky moment. I had just been (or fancied I had 
been) most barbarously dealt with, and was ready to 
hang or drown myself in good earnest ; but the sight of 
your handwriting can cheat me out of ill-humour at any 
time ; it always presents so many delightful images, and 
excites so many delightful expectations ! Oh, you have 
no notion how great a blessing our correspondence is to 
me ! When I am vexed, I write my grievances to you ; 
and the assurance 1 have that your next Letter will bring 
me consolation, already consoles me. And then, when 
your Letter comes — when it repeats to me that One 
in the world loves me — will love me ever, ever, — and 
tells me more boldly than Hope, that my future may yet 
be glorious and happy, there is no obstacle I do not feel 
prepared to meet and conquer. I owe you much! feel- 
ings and sentiments that ennoble my character, that 
give dignity, interest and enjoyment to my life. In 
return, I can only love you, and that I do, from the 
bottom of my heart." 

To balance this extract a paragraph must be 
quoted from Carlyle's last letter to Miss Welsh 
The first sentence, as a footnote explains, has a 
double allusion, — first, to Swift's article en- 
titled " The last Speech and dying Words of 
Ebenezer Elliston," and, secondly, to the old 
ballad called " The Unfortunate Miss Bailey." 
This, then, is the self-congratulatory tone in 
which the soon-to-be-married man begins : 

" ' The Last Speech and marrying words of that un- 
fortunate young woman Jane Baillie Welsh,' I received 
on Friday morning; and truly a most delightful and 
swan-like melody was in them; a tenderness and warm 
devoted trust, worthy of such a maiden bidding farewell 
to the (unmarried) Earth, of which she was the fairest 
ornament. Dear little Child! How is it that I have 
deserved thee; deserved a purer and nobler heart than 
falls to the lot of millions? I swear I will love thee 
with my whole heart, and think my life well spent if it 
can make thme happy." 

Where, all this time, some may ask, has 
Edward Irving been keeping himself, and what 



292 



THE DIAL 



[May 1, 



are his feelings for Miss Welsh and hers for him 
throughout this courtship? It will surprise 
most readers to be assured by the editor that, as 
to any alleged attachment between the young 
lady and her former teacher, there is, in collo- 
quial phrase, " nothing in it." And in Appendix 
B, Note Three, twenty-five pages of fine print 
are devoted to demolishing the Irving- Welsh 
love legend. A pre-Carlylean love affair there 
does appear to have been ; but the object of 
Jane's girlish affection was not Irving, but one 
George Rennie, who, manifestly unworthy of, 
and perhaps unconscious of, the young maiden's 
favor, took himself unceremoniously off the scene 
and became lost to fame. Irving seems to have 
cherished an elder-brotherly regard for his 
former pupil, and to have been interested, as a 
minister of religion, in her soul's welfare ; but 
the evidence adduced by the editor certainly 
undermines the romantic fable of the insuper- 
able obstacle (in the shape of the woman Irving 
eventually did marry) to the union of two break- 
ing hearts. Proof is offered, from Mrs. Oli- 
phant's pen, of the entire harmony and happiness 
prevailing in Mr. and Mrs. Irving's relations to 
each other. But who can read a woman's 
heart? Whether Jane Welsh ever felt senti- 
mentally inclined toward her talented and attrac- 
tive teacher — and such a feeling would have 
been no more than natural, perhaps almost 
inevitable at her age and in her seclusion from 
much other society — or, indeed, whether Irving 
ever conceived a tender affection for his pupil, 
who at their first meeting was little more than 
half his age, no one can now pronounce with 
certainty ; nor does it much matter how the case 
stood. There is at most but very slight foun- 
dation for the elaborate superstructure that has 
been built up concerning these two and their 
alleged desperate fondness for each other. 

To an impartial reader these love letters 
must strengthen the impression already pro- 
duced by the post-nuptial correspondence of 
their writers, — an impression of a deep and last- 
ing attachment between two somewhat similarly 
gifted, and perhaps for that reason somewhat 
mutually incompatible, natures. A more pla- 
cidly humdrum domestic existence would un- 
doubtedly have been theirs if each had chosen 
a mate constitutionally adapted to undergo, with- 
out irritant friction, daily contact with his or her 
angularities and asperities. But in a world of 
only approximately perfect adjustments theirs 
is to be regarded as a far from unhappy union, 
and one whose history mankind will long take 
pleasure in reading. 



The two volumes contain one hundred and 
seventy-six letters and ninety pages of appended 
matter, including seventeen poems, chiefly by 
"T. C." and "J. W." Especially interesting 
is it to note the early appearance and the increas- 
ing prominence of those distinctive features that 
place the letters of both Carlyle and his wife 
among the very best that literature contains. 
No uncertain or tedious scrawl ever comes from 
their pens ; but from the first they write with 
a mastery of their medium, a command of vigor- 
ous and vivid English, that is a source of unfail- 
ing delight. The many illustrations and the 
abundant footnotes and full index are all that 
one could desire for so important a work. If 
the last word has not now been said on the 
relations of Mr. and Mrs. Carlyle to each other, 
the fault is not Mr. Alexander Carlyle's. 

Percy F. Bicknell. 



Psychology and Psychotherapy.* 

How shall a knowledge of our mental nature 
contribute to the efficiency and worth of the life 
of high purpose which our ideals commend? 
That is the dominant, though not the exclusive, 
problem of applied psychology. The parallelism 
of the two streams of human interest thus sug- 
gested is historically and actually more conspic- 
uous than their bond of connection ; and the 
manner of portraying this underlying affiliation 
commits the psychologist to a fundamental 
aspect of his profession. The issue appears in 
every field of human endeavor in which the 
commendable is to be separated from the unde- 
sirable, the socially fit from the socially unfit. 
Morality, education, hygiene, art, literature, and 
religion, the industrial pursuits and the political 
welfare, are affected by the trend and temper of 
the attitude that is reached and made effective. 
The result becomes the contribution of psy- 
chology to the philosophy of life. 

No more concrete and valuable application of 
the larger problem appears on the vista of our 
present interests than that which affects the atti- 
tude toward the maintenance of human health, 
which means sanity; and Professor Miinster- 
berg's book entitled "Psychotherapy" finds its 
significance as a worthy and wholesome influ- 
ence to this end. The term "psychothera- 
peutics " has found popular currency, but the 
meaning that we attach to it makes of it either 
dross or gold. The genuine and the counterfeit 

♦ Psychotherapy. By Hugo Miinsterberg. Professor of Psy- 
chology in Harvard University. New York : Moffat, Yard & Co. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



293 



circulate with almost equal acceptance ; and it 
is the business of those professing some expert- 
ness in this complex field to furnish the ready 
means for their intelligent discrimination. It 
is far more important that this shall be done, 
than that we shall at once reach a consensus in 
regard to how it shall be done, or whose busi- 
ness primarily it is to do it. Professor Miin- 
sterberg's contribution consists of three logically 
arranged steps : the first setting forth the man- 
ner of connection between the doctrines and 
findings of psychology and the utilization of 
the mental influences in the relief of disabilities 
and impediments ; the second furnishing some 
living pictures of these influences in action ; the 
third presenting the manner in which principle 
and procedure affect the interests of the physi- 
cian, the minister, the psychologist, and the 
public. 

It may be questioned whether the layman (to 
whom the volume is addressed) will derive any 
very direct benefit from the reading of the in- 
troductory presentation ; and he has the author's 
frank permission to skip it. Yet even if he 
reads casually, he is likely to gather that the 
determination of the relations of body and mind 
is a very intricate and evasive task, — an impres- 
sion that may render him less susceptible if not 
wholly immune to the assertive and aggressive 
advances of the impatient practitioner of what- 
ever " ism " or " pathy." The central theme 
that the causal point of view — which is psy- 
chology's along with her sister sciences — must 
be held apart from the purposive, which is the 
attitude of ethics, religion, and the ideals of life, 
commands consent but not conviction. And as 
the reader becomes interested in the account of 
cases cured, the manner of their treatment, and 
in the practical bearings of this therapy in the 
actual situations of life, he cannot see that these 
appear more comprehensive to his understanding 
from any belief or scepticism of the aforesaid 
principles. Indeed, the whole may be read as 
in apologia for the author's former disavowal 
that psychology has much of a message for edu- 
cation or the practical arts of life. 

To achieve a rational attitude toward the 
psychic ministrations of a mind diseased seems 
no easy matter, so entangled is the subject with 
prejudices, dubious practices, and theories which 
are not dubious but conspicuously perverted. 
This is the field in which materialism (a term 
by which to condemn) and idealism (an epithet 
of disparagement) seem determined to quarrel 
at every encounter, when indeed they can be 
persuaded to enter a common arena. The one 



irritably asks why the body should be com- 
plicated by a mind, and the other's disdain 
cannot understand why the mind should be 
handicapped with a body. The modern varieties 
of the latter type of ignoring the obvious has 
certainly led to the most elaborate nonsense to 
which practically-minded individuals ever sacri- 
ficed time or dollars. The former is a much 
more modest prejudice, an uneasiness in the 
presence of mental symptoms and mental 
methods of treatment, as of things irregular, 
untrustworthy, and obscure. To the one, mind 
can move mountains ; and the other tries this 
motive power only with hesitation and reserva- 
tion on mole hills. The rational use of mental 
influences on the ills that flesh — or is is mind ? 
— is heir to is neither a miracle nor a revelation. 
It is a legitimate outcome of legitimate study ; 
and it is high time that in the judgment of 
fair-minded men, the bar sinister of its ancient 
pedigree (and may one add, of its bastard 
descendants ?) should be ignored. The grudg- 
ing scepticism of the physician is as misplaced, 
though very differently motived, as the uncrit- 
ical propagandism of the drugless, matterless, 
body less healers. 

It is not necessary for those who endorse 
Professor Miinsterberg's intermediary point of 
view, to endorse even this in its details, or to 
have an opinion favorable or otherwise upon his 
own treatment of his own cases. If sympa- 
thetically inclined, they will recognize that as a 
professor of psychology, who is also by training 
a doctor of medicine but not a practitioner, he 
has been willing to bend his interests and his 
expertness to the relief of some selected cases. 
There is no obligation or intent to convert the 
psychological laboratory into a clinic ; and the 
recorded opinion of the volume is against such 
procedure. The position consistently adhered 
to is that the field of practice belongs by war- 
rant of training and profession to the medical 
man ; and that the psychologist, like the minis- 
ter, is a coadjutor, — though summoned for very 
different reasons and occasions. The evidence 
that psychic measures are effective in the treat- 
ment of disease is extensive and convincing. 
That it is particularly effective in that inesti- 
mably vast and important mass of disabilities, 
inefficiencies, and impediments of mental origin, 
that wreck as many lives and cause as much 
havoc and agony as the minor ravages of 
microbes or the obvious crippling of detectable 
injury, is equally clearly spread upon the min- 
utes of every observing physician's case-book. 
Accepting its utility and wise applicability, we 



294 



THE DIAL 



[May 1, 



are prepared to find a modus vivendi for its 
step-by-step introduction into the practical con- 
cerns of modern life. 

On the medical side the moral is obvious. 
The psychologist, if his interests do not happen 
to turn him that way, need not be a practitioner ; 
but the practitioner should be something of a 
psychologist. And, moreover, he should be just 
that kind of psychologist who has an insight into 
the minor psychic failings of a complex but very 
prevalent humanity. He may, if he is crowded 
in his preparation, know only enough of insanity 
and the larger abnormalities to recognize them, 
and turn them over to a proper specialist ; but 
the lesser disabilities, like the poor, he will 
always have with him. If he wishes to serve 
his patients with the full equipment of modern 
resources, his quiver should be as well provided 
with psychic shafts as with the keen-cutting or 
drugged points of his ominous black bag. For 
the parties of the other part argument will avail 
little. Psychology is as hopeless to provide an 
antidote for quacks as for their dupes ; and few 
of either kidney present themselves without a 
letter of recommendation, which they have some- 
how extracted (or forged) from that abused and 
complacent scion of learning. But a word must 
be said in regard to an alliance of most worthy 
intent, now incorporated in what is known as 
the " Emmanuel movement." At best this is 
but a passing phase of a larger interest. Other 
and better modes of providing for this service 
are certain to be developed. Professor Miin- 
sterberg takes the commendable position that 
the minister's mode of appeal should be utilized 
with discretion when it is needed as a therapeu- 
tic aid ; but that the latter's usurpation of the 
medical man's function is unwise, is dangerous, 
and cannot be supported by the arguments that 
enforce the psychologist's cooperation and 
guidance. 

But physician, minister, and psychologist 
alike, directly or indirectly, have an obligation 
to serve the sanity of the community ; and a 
right and rational understanding of what psy- 
chology means, and what the psychologist's pur- 
poses are, is as essential to these professions as 
it is to the integrity of just those phases of the 
public sanity that are to-day most affected by 
pseudo-scientific f olderol about the subconscious 
mind, and psychic waves, and new thought, and 
other disguise of old superstition. It is, in brief, 
because psychology desires to minister to prac- 
tical needs, and is in a position to perform a 
modest service ; and because, whether willing or 
unwilling, psychology is certain to have her name 



taken in vain in support of measures which she 
knows not of ; and because the practical desire 
to shake off this mortal coil of pain and disa- 
bility is amongst the most urgent of all motives 
for the study of mind and the things of earth and 
heaven, that the right understanding of the rela- 
tions of psychology and healing becomes a matter 
of public concern. The dominant temper and 
central bearing of Professor Miinsterberg's work 
is a contribution to that desirable end. 

Joseph Jastrow. 



liOREXZO THE MAGNIPICENT, AND 

His Time.* 



Lorenzo de Medici has been so favorite a topic 
with writers of both history and literature, that a 
new work on the subject must lay claim to some 
special merit to justify its appearance. Mr. 
Horsburgh fully meets this condition ; his life 
of Lorenzo the Magnificent occupies a very 
imique position, and deserves a hearty welcome 
not only from the general student of the Italian 
Renaissance but from the specialist in Floren- 
tine history as well. Of the previous literature 
on the subject, only three works can lay claim 
to adequate treatment — Roscoe's life. Von 
Reumont's elaborate work, and Armstrong's 
monograph. Roscoe's book, written nearly a 
century ago, is obviously not abreast of modem 
scholarship ; Von Reumont's work, though based 
on diligent study and careful research, is de- 
signed rather for reference than for general 
reading, while the English version is written in 
such a style as to make consecutive reading im- 
possible ; Armstrong's scholarly work is ideal 
as far as it goes, but it makes no attempt to 
portray all the phases of Lorenzo's many-sided 
activities. 

Even the briefest perusal of Mr. Horsburgh's 
work, discloses a ripe scholarship combined with 
a high degree of appreciation of the requirements 
of his task. Within the compass of five hun- 
dred pages he has given us a complete portrai- 
ture of his hero from every point of view, and 
has also sketched a vivid picture of Florentine 
history during the fifteenth century. Lorenzo as 
statesman, diplomatist, patron of art and letters, 
humanist, author, — every side of this marvel- 
lous man receives adequate and in some cases 
original treatment. 

Mr. Horsburgh is frankly an admirer of 
Lorenzo, and is anxious to present his hero in 

* Lorenzo the Magnificent, and Florence in her Golden 
Age. By E. L. S. Horsburgh, B. A. New York : G. P. Putnam's 
Sons. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL. 



295 



the best possible light ; in fact, one might almost 
consider his work an apology for the whole 
Medician regime. This attitude, a result of 
sympathetic appreciation, rather than strict his- 
torical criticism, appears most prominently in 
the chapters on Lorenzo's methods of govern- 
ment. The author rejects absolutely the view 
that Lorenzo was a cold and calculating tyrant 
who had deliberately set himself to destroy 
the liberties of a free republic. Lorenzo, he 
declares, was invested with his power by the 
voluntary act of the ruling class of Florentine 
citizens ; he slipped naturally into the place 
prepared for him by his grandfather, Cosimo. 
Moreover, no other course was left open to him ; 
such was his wealth, his influence, and his repu- 
tation, that if he was to be a public man he must 
be first or nowhere : the Medici once removed, 
the rule of the Albizzi or Pazzi would inevitably 
follow. The Florentines, thinks Mr. Hors- 
burgh, had not only lost their capacity of self- 
government, but a thorough-going republican 
regime would have been a fatal anachronism. 
Florence was surrounded by a cordon of unscru- 
pulous and grasping neighbors, and an abso- 
lutism in some form must stand between her 
and destruction. Hence in the establishment 
of his personal government Lorenzo has ample 
justification on the grounds both of practical 
necessity and patriotic duty. While advancing 
the fortunes of his own house, he was performing 
an inestimable service to the State as well. 

Assuming, then, that the government of the 
Medici was a logical necessity, the author goes 
on to show how well Lorenzo acquitted himself 
of his task. And in truth the problems to be 
faced were no easy ones. The Florentines 
must be accustomed to a veiled despotism while 
their vanity was to be flattered by all the exter- 
nal trappings of republicanism. Florence must 
wax powerful and prosperous by the mainten- 
nance of a nicely adjusted balance of power 
within Italy, and above all no pretext must be 
given for foreign interventions from beyond the 
Alps. These were but a few of the many diffi- 
culties which Lorenzo met and overcame. 

It is entirely beside the mark to upbraid 
Lorenzo with sordid manipulation of political 
machinery or unblushing bestowal of state 
offices, of finesse and corruption. Such things 
were the inevitable result of Lorenzo's anom- 
alous position, of trjdng to maintain the delusion 
of freedom while exercising the powers of an 
autocrat. With the aid of these considerations, 
the author boldly grapples with the various 
charges that have been made against Lorenzo's 



system of government. The most damaging of 
these accusations is the alleged appropriation of 
public funds for private uses. Mr. Horsburgh 
rightly considers this the crux of the whole 
question ; if he can explain away this charge, 
the rehabilitation of Lorenzo will be complete. 
After emphasizing again the desire of the 
Florentines to enjoy aU the luxury and advan- 
tage of a monarchy without paying for it, and 
without providing the machinery for its main- 
tenance, he adds : 

" In modern monarchies, a Civil List, amply sufficient 
for the dignity and needs of the monarch, is provided 
at the expense of the public revenue. In Florence, 
Lorenzo's anomalous position as a private citizen, some- 
how invested with the dignity of Head of the State, 
produced a corresponding financial anomaly. In all 
State ceremonial he was required to take the lead. He 
was expected, as a matter of course, to entertain splen- 
didly royal or distinguished visitors who came to Flor- 
ence for their pleasure or diplomatic business. No 
allowances from the public funds were made to him for 
these purposes. It was at his own expense that he was 
required to perform absolutely necessary public services. 
Wheij, therefore, he struck a balance between what the 
State owed to him, and what he owed to the State, it 
was not unnatural that he should conclude that the debt 
was not all on one side ; that if there was little discrim- 
ination on the one part there need not be very much 
discrimination on the other. The fact is that Lorenzo 
is so modern, he is so nearly in touch with the thought 
and standards of to-day that we almost instinctively 
judge him from the point of view of to-day. We apply 
to him an ideal of conduct which we should never dream 
of applying to Tudors, or even to Bourbons. . . . 
Critics of Lorenzo are constantly forgetful of the con- 
ditions of government and life which existed in his day. 
It is the highest testimony to the real greatness of 
Lorenzo that he should be so judged — that we are not 
content to palliate in him faults which in other rulers 
of the time we readily condone. Lorenzo is one of the 
few men in history for whom the world has never been 
ready to admit the extenuating plea of circumstances 
and environment. It is instinctively felt that he had 
the higher light, and that where he sinned, he sinned 
against that light." 

It would be an injustice to Mr. Horsburgh to 
limit this brief review to those portions of his 
work dealing with Lorenzo s government. Other 
chapters, though less original in treatment, are 
extremely interesting. The section devoted to 
the Pazzi conspiracy — that all but successful 
attempt of the disgruntled Pazzi nobles, abetted 
by Pope Sixtus IV., to assassinate Lorenzo and 
his brother in the Duomo of Florence — reads 
more like a romance than sober history. The 
chapter describing Lorenzo's last days also has. 
a distinct historical value. Mr. Horsburgh 
rightly rejects the traditional accoimt found in 
most of the biographies of Savonarola, that 
Lorenzo died unshriven owing to the impossible 
conditions imposed by the uncompromising 



296 



THE DIAL 



[May 1, 



Dominican monk. The last hours of the great 
Medici were spent with his friends Poliziano 
and Pico della Mirandola, and he passed away 
in the bosom of the Church. 

Mr. Horsburgh's work is a distinct contribu- 
tion to Italian literature and humanism, as well 
as to Florentine history. After briefly but 
clearly indicating Lorenzo's relation to the 
Renaissance, the author devotes some sixty 
pages to Lorenzo as poet and writer. At first 
sight it would seem as if Mr. Horsburgh could 
glean but little after so full a harvest had been 
reaped by such specialists as Symonds and 
Gaspary ; but here again a well-worn subject is 
enlivened by distinct originality of treatment. 
The sonnets, lyrics, miracle plays, dance songs, 
the Canti Carnascialeschi, are all passed in 
review. And in his analysis and appreciation 
of Lorenzo's prose commentary to his sonnets, 
and the satirical poem of Nencia da Barberino, 
Mr. Horsburgh has rendered the student of 
Italian literature a genuine service ; as far 
as I am aware, the Commentario has never 
before received treatment commensurate with 
its importance. 

One lays down the work of Mr. Horsburgh 
with a feeling that one has read a book distinctly 
worth while. Had the author made his work 
a little less popular in tone, and supplied it with 
critical footnotes, citations from contemporary 
authorities, and voluminous appendices, it might 
not fear comparison with such classics in their 
field as Villari's biographies of Savonarola and 
Machiavelli. But the general reader will not 
regret the absence of this criticaj apparatus, 
especially as its place is taken by a series of 
excellent illustrations drawn from the Florentine 
art of the period. p^ ^^ Martin. 



The Search for What Is Close 
AT Hand.* 



Many who have got away from M. Maeterlinck 
in the last few years, or from whom he has got 
away, will be glad to get back to him by way of 
" The Blue Bird." There were those who had 
read with a curious delight the strange little 
early pieces, the romantic dream-fantasias like 
" Pelleas et Melisande," and the more definite 
adventure of " Monna Vanna," who did not 
readily follow him in his studies on bees and 
flowers, or on social justice and social reform. 
Here, however, the merely light-minded will 

* The Blue Bird. A Fairy Play in Five Acts. By Maurice 
Maeterlinck. Translated by Alexander Teixeira de Mattos. 
New York : Dodd, Mead & Co. 



again find something of that which they enjoyed 
a long time ago. 

" The Blue Bird " is certainly a very charming 
piece. I do not know whether it has been acted, 
or if so how it succeeded upon the stage, but 
certainly as we have it in the book (excellently 
translated by Mr. de Mattos, as are many other 
of Maeterlinck's books), it makes as real and as 
intense an impression as did any of M. Maeter- 
linck's earlier successes. It is true it appears 
to us under the guise of a slight, a trivial piece, 
a fairy play, something perhaps for the children 
at Christmas-time. But of course we understand 
that a man need not become serious, need not be 
in deadly earnest, in order to do something worth 
doing. " Peter Pan," for instance, is a slight 
child's play, but it misses only by a little being 
a very wonderful and beautiful piece. And so, 
on the other hand, many plays much more serious 
and much more important in form and topic than 
" Peter Pan" or " The Blue Bird " become, with 
all their serious importance, things that nobody 
can bear to see or read a second time — perhaps 
not even a first. 

Of course a fairy play is rather after our 
earlier idea of M. Maeterlinck, — not that his 
earlier plays were fairy plays, but they had 
a certain independence of ordinary conditions 
(most of them) that was much the same thing. 
A fairy play will permit all sorts of dramatic 
conveniences, but then so did many of M. Maeter- 
linck's earlier plays. This play, however, is freer 
than were they ; M. Maeterlinck perhaps has 
not in mind so much of dramatic theory as in 
earlier days. It is also fuller of thought, perhaps 
because, not having certain definite ideas to 
express, M. Maeterlinck is the better able to 
express the wealth of ideas on things in general 
which the last few years have brought him. 

Certainly the main idea is not profound. 
Two children are sent by the Fairy Berylune 
to search for the Blue Bird which her little 
daughter wants. They seek in all manner of 
strange places and return to find the Blue Bird 
in their own backyard. It is not on any such 
main idea (how often has that particular one 
been presented to us) that the play depends, but 
on the opportunity which such a theme gives the 
author for suggestive and subtle remarks and 
analogies. The children start off accompanied 
by the Dog and the Cat, by Bread and Sugar, 
and by Light. It is very possible, of course, 
that with a heavier hand all this would simply 
be conventional and stupid ; but with M. 
Maeterlinck it is full of genius, evinced in the 
first frantic leaps and jumps of the Dog, and 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



297 



the self -considering ceremoniousness of the Cat. 
We see at once that we have here no lay figures 
presented merely to point a moral and adorn a 
tale, but real creations, real dog and cat. With 
such companions the children set out. The boy 
wears a green hat with a shining diamond in 
the cockade : turn it and one sees " into the life 
of things." And first they come to the Land 
of Memory, where are the dead who pass the 
days in peaceful sleep except when we remember 
them ; and here they rouse their old Granny, 
and old Gaffer Tyl their grandfather, and their 
little brothers and sisters. "Yes, we get plenty 
of sleep, while waiting for a thought of the 
Living to come and wake us," says Gaffer Tyl. 
" Ah, it is good to sleep when life is done. But 
it is pleasant also to wake up from time to time." 
Then they come to the Palace of Night, still 
searching for the Blue Bird. They are led on by 
Light. The Cat runs on ahead (familiar with 
the region) to warn Night that Man is getting 
at the secrets of things. The Cat is a conspir- 
ator, but the Dog is a great galloping friend. 
So the children wish to look in Night's closets, 
searching for the Blue Bird. Poor Night ! She 
has but few terrors left, — a few poor Ghosts 
and Sicknesses. Then to the Forest among the 
Trees ; and here again the Cat would betray the 
children, — children as they are of the old wood- 
cutter. And here the Trees and the Animals 
would overpower the children, judge them, and 
put them to death. But the Man single-handed 
is too much for Nature. And then they come 
to the Graveyard, to ask of the dead who lie 
there about the Blue Bird ; and as twelve o'clock 
soimds there rises from the gaping tombs a sort 
of evanescent mist, but there are no dead. And 
then they come to the Kingdom of the Future, 
where live those who are to be born in days to 
come, children with all sorts of things that they 
are to bring to earth, — inventions, crimes, and 
other wonders. But still no Blue Bird. And 
then they find themselves back again in front 
of their own house, and Bread and Sugar leave 
them, and the Dog and the Cat become silent, 
and Light says good-bye, and they wake up and 
find the Blue Bird in their cage at home, and 
give it to an old neighbor to please her little girl. 
All this is fanciful enough, one will easily 
see ; but also it suggests, or it may suggest, so 
much more than it says. It opens to us a new 
world, a world of apprehensions different from 
those of every day, that was always M. Maeter- 
linck's world, — a world in which we can speak 
to the dog and the cat, a world in which we can 
see those who are gone and those who are to 



come, a world in which we can enter into the 
life of the trees and of the beasts of the field, 
and of night. That is a world of which M. 
Maeterlinck has spoken much of late, of which 
others have spoken too. In "The Blue Bird" 
he presents to us in suggestion and in symbol 
much that has perhaps crossed our minds in 
more definite and serious thought. 

This, I rather think, is what the drama can 
well do and is at its best in doing. A play is 
not, I believe, a very good opportunity for the 
argument of causes, and I have always thought 
that problems in plays were rather out of place, — 
at least if we wanted solutions to them. Yet it 
is not quite enough either that a play shoidd 
stir our sentiments, our emotions, our passions 
at random and without connection with our more 
rational moods or moments. But though it is 
no place for argument, the drama gives a won- 
derful opportunity for putting ideas into actual 
forms, into figures and actions so suggestive, so 
poignant, so appealing, that they remain in our 
minds with an impressiveness that no argument 
can equal. If a play does that, it fulfils one 
great possibility of the drama, whether it do it 
by a child's fairy-tale or a tragedy of everyday 
life. The great dramas generally do stand in 
our minds for something, or else they give us 
figures or situations that stand for something. 
And according as this something is more or less 
worth while, and more or less seriously impressed 
upon us, why by so much do we value the drama. 
Hence one will read " The Blue Bird " with more 
attention to the moments of intense appreciation 
and intuition than to questions of technique and 
structure. Such, indeed, has always been the 
case with M. Maeterlinck, although he would 
at times have had it otherwise. But never has 
it been more so, nor has such care been more 
rewarded, than in his latest play. 

Edward E. Hale, Jr. 



liiNCOLN's Last Days and Death.* 

The additions to Lincoln literature due to 
the centenary celebration include two volumes 
closelyrelated,although emanating from different 
sources. That each has for its theme the death 
of Lincoln is a testimonial to the public interest 
in every detail of " our most original American," 
as well as an illustration of the painstaking 
methods of historical investigation of the present 

• The Assassination op Abraham Lincoln and Its Expia- 
Tion. By David Miller De Witt. New York : The Macmillan Co. 

The Death op Lincoln. By Clara E. Laughlin. Illustrated 
New York: Doubleday, Page & Co. 



298 



THE DIAL 



[May 1, 



day. The tragic nature of Lincoln's taking-off, 
as well as the preeminent position he occupied 
at the time, are warrants against the possible 
charge of gratifying a morbid curiosity. 

The two volumes under consideration vary 
widely in treatment. Mr. De Witt's will appeal 
more to the student, while Miss Laughlin's will 
attract rather the general reader. The one 
approaches the subject in the mood of the 
jurist who tests every point ; the other in the 
attitude of the witness who gives a narrative. 
The one dwells largely on the crime and trial of 
the " conspirators "; the other, on the harrowing 
incidents of Lincoln's last days. Both denounce 
the injustice of the trial, and both criticize 
President Johnson for withholding clemency 
after it. Mr. De Witt is severe upon the 
government for failure to punish Boston Cor- 
bett, the slayer of Booth, who, " unrebuked, 
left the stand to start on a triumphant tour over 
the North, everywhere welcomed as an avenger 
of blood. He received his proportionate share 
of the reward for the capture, notwithstanding 
(if his story is to be believed) it was his own 
wanton act that saved the captive from paying 
the penalty of his crime." He is severe also 
in his arraignment of the action of those in 
authority during the " reign of terror " imme- 
diately following the assassination. The prose- 
cution, he says, exercised a " cruel ingenuity " 
in its activities. 

" Death had snatched an arch-assassin from their 
grasp; Payne, Atzerodt and Herold they might have 
hung ' in a corner,' with none to call in question the 
validity or justice of the process. But an expiation so 
unspectacular would have been but a sorry afterpiece 
to a world-historic tragedy. To fill the measure of the 
people's vengeance, they must bring within the sweep of 
the sword of the republic every participant, high or low, 
far or near, active or passive, from the fugitive president 
of the moribund Confederacy, his cabinet ministers, and 
his agents in Canada, down to the lackey who swept out 
the building within whose guilty walls the tragedy was 
enacted." 

Of the trial, held in the casemates of Fortress 
Monroe, the author says : 

" The brutality of loading down with fetters the seven 
male prisoners, guarded as they were, while in the 
presence of their judges, passed with indifference if not 
with positive approval — so cruel was the humor of the 
time ; but the presence of a helpless woman in that iron- 
bound row before a court composed of nine officers of 
the army with swords by their sides, sent a shock through 
the civilized world. . . . Indeed, throughout the entire 
trial the commission acted upon the theory that false 
swearing was to be expected from any witness for the 
defence who had participated in the rebellion either in 
word or deed." 

The validity of the trial before the Military 
Commission, composed of officers of the army. 



is attacked, and instances are cited where the 
" common law of war " was held by the highest 
court to be beyond the power of Congress to 
grant or the President to exercise. A special 
chapter is given to " The Dwindling of the 
' Great Conspiracy ' " charge, at a later time, 
when Congress was attempting to fasten upon 
President Johnson the responsibility for the 
crime in order that he might succeed to the 
presidency. 

" To this ignominious end was brought the ' Great 
Conspiracy ' which Stanton heralded to the world on the 
morning after the assassination. It accomplished noth- 
ing in furtherance of the purpose for which it was fab- 
ricated. Jefferson Davis — all hope of trying him by 
military commission being abandoned — was siu-ren- 
dered by the military to the civil authorities, and 
admitted to bail on an indictment for treason ; Clay had 
been released on parole a year before ; Thompson and 
Sanders and Tucker and Cleary were roaming at will, 
forgotten if not forgiven. The sole result of its blind 
advocacy on the part of the prosecuting officers was to 
sweep within the purview of the judgment of the court 
the woman who stood at the bar with Payne, Atzerodt, 
and Herold; and to banish to a prison on the Florida 
reefs four men, all of whom but the one who died of 
yellow fever, were about to be pardoned." 

Miss Laughlin's volume presents a plain nar- 
rative of the facts connected with the assassi- 
nation, the trial, the execution, and the im- 
prisonment of the alleged accomplices, without 
attempting judgment. The narrative occupies 
but little over half the volume, the remainder 
being given to Appendices, causing an unfor- 
tunate lack of balance. Many of these additions 
are less than two pages in length, and frequently 
are not germane to the general subject, thus 
emphasizing the impression that they are ves- 
tigia of the note-book. Nevertheless they con- 
tain matter of general interest. The illustrations, 
copies of originals, are in many cases remotely 
connected with the title of the volume. 

If the author of the first volume here reviewed 
has the advantage in point of authenticity and 
research, the second easily surpasses in style of 
composition. The first has an exasperating 
habit of changing the narrative from the past to 
the present tense, a style at one time supposed 
to add to liveliness of narrative, but now gen- 
erally abandoned save in bombast. The same 
authorities are used by each, being the official 
documents of the trials and the narrative of the 
various parties concerned ; each author rejects 
the many exaggerated stories concerning the 
disposition of the body of Booth, and each con- 
signs it to a grave dug beneath the pavement 
in the ground-floor of the old Penitentiary in 
Washington. ^DWIN E. Sparks. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



299 



Briefs on Ketv Books. 



The English and their traits have 
Sn'ffJSman!"'" always interested us, whether por- 

trayed and commented upon by some 
philosophic Emerson, or " written up " in journalistic 
style by a newspaper man after a week's tour of the 
island kingdom. Mr. Price Collier, with thirty 
years' acquaintance of John Bull and his peculiar- 
ities, has issued a goodly volume embodying his 
matured opinions and convictions regarding a num- 
ber of things British, and has entitled his book 
" England and the English from an American Point 
of View" (Scribner). In his penultimate para^ 
graph he deliberately asserts of our transatlantic 
cousins that " if they were not so parochial, if they 
did not so confidently believe, as Dr. Johnson once 
said, and as some of their statesmen have broadly 
hinted many times since, that ' aU foreigners are 
mostly fools,' they would be much nearer a realiza- 
tion of " certain wholesome truths than they now 
are. He shows us the dominant and domineering 
Briton, heavy, beef-fed, substantial, as irresistible as 
he is massive and deliberate, holding imperial pos- 
session of one-fifth of the earth's land-area, and 
exercising imperial rule over twenty-two per cent 
of its population. Speaking of the English love of 
law and order, their discipline, their unquestioning 
obedience to authority, the writer says : " No wonder 
the average Englishman cannot be terrified, or even 
aroused, to take decent precautions against invasion. 
They do not need the training of other peoples. 
They are already trained. When I see this quality 
of the race I smile to think what would become of 
a hundred or two hundred thousand Germans landed 
on these shores, with their maehine-like methods, 
their lack of initiative, and their dependence upon 
a bureaucracy. They would be swallowed up, or 
dispersed like chaff." And yet other men, even cool 
heads like Mr. Frederic Harrison, are not just now 
smiling at the thought of what might happen in such 
a contingency. But no sane person can wish the 
matter brought to a test. Mr. Price's book contains, 
first and last, a good many statistics, and he twice 
states the population of London, — first as "some 
four million six hundred odd thousand inhabitants," 
and again as 7,113,561. The book leaves an impres- 
sion of fairness, even of warm friendliness, toward 
the English, and of carefully matured opinions and 
well-informed judgments on a number of timely and 
interesting topics. 

Mr. P. F. William Ryan's study of 
" Queen Anne and Her Court " 
(Dutton) is a work of exceptional 
interest. The first volume carries the narrative on 
from the Restoration in 1660 to the close of William 
in.'s reign forty years later ; the second is devoted 
to developments during the reign of Anne. The 
purpose of the author is to describe the personal 
phases of palace life, political matters being noted 
only where they are directly influenced by the course 



Side-lights on 
the court of 
Queen Anne, 



of domestic events. The work is, therefore, neither 
a history nor a biography, as no attempt is made to 
give a complete or connected account either of the 
period generally or of the life of Anne Stuart. The 
author has selected a series of dramatic episodes and 
interesting situations to each of which he generally 
gives a separate chapter. Selection of a sort that 
omits what is prosy or dull and includes only such 
matters as have an abiding human interest cannot 
fail to produce a readable narrative, and Mr. Ryan's 
volumes are exceedingly readable ; but the result 
will hardly take the place of sober history. For a 
work of this sort the later Stuart period offers splen- 
did opportunities : for devious diplomacy, intellectual 
brilliancy, elastic morals, questionable ambitions, 
and consummate treachery, the age has long been 
famous. Of the doings of this age, the author writes 
in the style of the sensational novelist, a style that 
seems well adapted to the subject matter. Never- 
theless, he apparently wishes to have his story taken 
seriously, for he has evidently made considerable 
use of primary sources, such as diaries, memoirs, and 
letters — especially the letters written by Anne to 
her sister Mary of Orange. His fancy, however, is 
not always under proper restraint ; but as he employs 
it principally in describing weather conditions, park 
scenery, and the agonies of love and lovers, his imag- 
inative flights are harmless as a rule. Mr. Ryan is 
not sympathetic toward the age that he describes, 
and his chapters consequently cannot be relied on 
for a fair and impartial impression or estimate of the 
great men and women of the period ; but as side 
lights on the court of the later Stuarts they will prove 
of great interest and of considerable value. 

Mr. Edward Harrison Barker's vol- 
ume on "France of the French" 
(Scribner) meets a want which, if 
not yet long-felt, is none the less genuine. It is 
easy to find information with regard to the French 
of yesterday and the remoter past, but a reference 
book on the French of to-day has a distinct value. 
The term " reference-book " is used advisedly : Mr. 
Barker's volume is a small cyclopaedia of things 
French, with logical division and chronological sub- 
division instead of the customary alphabetical 
arrangement. Ten of its fourteen chapters are lists 
of biographies, in which the subjects are grouped as 
" Statesmen and Politicians," " Painters," " Sculp- 
tors," and so on ; and the list of names is so long 
that few individuals are allowed more than a short 
paragraph or two. Every work of so condensed a 
character must do violence to the truth by stating its 
conclusions too categorically — or fail to leave defi- 
nite impressions, as Mr. Hamerton's "French and 
English " fails ; but Mr. Barker is so quiet and well- 
bred in his assurance, that it seems impertinent to 
question him, even when he denies that the French 
are frivolous, or when he insists on the unsurpassed 
depth and genuineness of their " home feeling." 
Other writers have ventured to discuss the subject 
from a second-hand acquaintance, or perhaps a fly- 



France and 
the French 
of to-day . 



300 



THE DIAL 



[May 1, 



ing trip to Paris ; Mr. Barker has lived in various 
parts of France for thirty years, and speaks from 
personal knowledge. He writes well, and seems to 
have thought maturely on the most widely separated 
subjects. He has a very definite opinion on every 
matter that comes within the broad boundaries of his 
book, from the symbolism of Rodin's statuary to the 
value of Dr. Metchnikoff's discovery concerning 
phagocytic cells. He concludes with a statement 
heard frequently from the other side of the channel, 
which it should warm the French heart to hear 
echoed across the water : "There are no two nations 
in Europe with such community of aims, views, 
aspirations, and political interests as have the French 
and the English." 

p,cMdo-Jopon««e A Japanese Mr. Dooley airs his 
humor and opinions and proffers his suggestions 

nonsente. ijj ^j. Wallace Irwin's " Letters of 

a Japanese Schoolboy" (Doubleday). "Hashimura 
Togo " is the name of the nawe and delightful letter- 
writer who gives his age as thirty-five; and his oft- 
quoted Cousin Nogi corresponds to the Hennessey 
of the Dooley sketches. The letters have already 
been enjoyed by readers of " Collier's Weekly," but 
they bear collection and republication unusually well. 
Being written by a Californian with an intimate 
knowledge of the San Francisco Japanese immigrant 
and his ways, the book naturally touches upon the 
strained relations now existing between the Occi- 
dentals and the Orientals there brought into contact ; 
and as there is no better harmonizer of differences 
than a good laugh, these laughter-provoking letters 
should serve a pacificatory purpose. From an early 
letter — they are all, be it noted, ostensibly as well 
as really written for newspaper publication — 
we quote Hashimura's very reasonable . question : 
"Which is more better citizen, thank you — Mr. 
Whee of opium-smoking and Gumowsky of whiskey- 
drunking or Japanese Boy of derby hat, frockaway 
coat and all other white manners of civilizedation?" 
Again : "Must Japan shoot American ship for going 
to Pacific ocean ? This is question for editor. I 
answer. No, please ! Pacific ocean still have too 
much water for Japan to cover with torpedo boats. 
Thank you, America fleet may call at San Francisco, 
San Diego, Seattle without angry rage from Tokyo 
government which is busy civilizing Corea. Hon. 
Mr. Roosevelt is welcome to travel." The book is 
wholesome in tone, as well as mirth-provoking. The 
numerous illustrations, though not triumphs of art, 
are in cheerful accord with the text. 



A woman's diary In the Foreword to "The RecoUec- 
vJ^ro/^'"' tions of a Spinster Aunt " (WiUiam 
European life. Heinemann, London ; Paul Reynolds, 
New York), the editor, Miss S. Sophia Beale, 
explains that the Spinster Aunt was not a celebrity, 
but only a quiet, observant person, who, through 
letters and a diary (covering the period from 1847 
to 1882), has left a desultory record of her observa- 
tions and impressions of a number of interesting 



people, things, and places. The contents of the book 
are too varied in subject to catalogue. In a charm- 
ingly unconnected fashion are recorded the child's 
first ideas of " Don Giovanni," of the Queen and 
Prince Albert, and of the opening of Crystal Palace. 
Then follow the art student's impressions of London 
and Paris ; and we are shown glimpses of an intimate 
acquaintance with the art of Europe, with English 
politics, letters, religion, and music, all in the simple 
personal narrative of an evidently unusual and inter- 
esting woman. Some of the twenty chapters could 
be skipped without loss, but three or four sections 
have elements of real power : the letters written in 
Paris at the time of the Franco-Prussian war picture 
the situation with vivid reality, — the weak Emperor 
hoping to gain popularity through a final coup d'etat, 
the excitable Parisians confident of victory until with 
the gradual realization of their position there came 
the quick reaction of sentiment. Added to this is 
the very human interest in the English art student, 
a girl quite alone in a city bitter against foreigners. 
To the catholicity of interests is added an unusual 
lucidity and delightful simplicity of style. 

A useful compendium setting forth 

A iurvev of , ^ -i • i 

education, the successive contributions to the 

bv a Japanese, ideals that have influenced the educa- 
tion of man comes from such an imexpected source 
as a Japanese student at an American university. 
Dr. Tadasu Misawa, in the compass of three hun- 
dred pages, sets forth, forcibly, clearly, and devel- 
opmentally, the problems of " Modern Educators 
and their Ideals" (Appleton). He begins with 
Comenius and ends with Dr. Harris and President 
Hall. The survey is of educational ideals, not of 
methods or measures or institutions, and keeps con- 
sistently to the task. The contrasts and individu- 
alities of the thinkers are well handled; and the 
reader takes away the very vital impression that 
the systems presented grew out of much the same 
sets of intellectual problems through the increasing 
purpose of the ages. It is certainly a creditable 
achievement for one of such alien heredity to enter 
so sympathetically yet discerningly into the spirit 
of the modern thought that has expressed one phase 
of its purpose and interests in the realm of educa- 
tion. The work is concise and commendable. 



The world's ^^^^ °^ ^"^^ ^^^^^ ^^? *^®^® appeared 
most famous in the "Popular Science Monthly" 
gardener. g^ couple of articles on the work of 

Mr. Luther Burbank as viewed from the standpoint 
of science by two very competent observers, Presi- 
dent Jordan and Professor Kellogg of Stanford 
University. The great increase of public interest in 
Mr. Burbank's activities since the essays appeared 
has led to their republication in an attractive volume, 
with various illustrations and a frontispiece portrait 
of Mr. Burbank, issued by Mr. A. M. Robertson of 
San Francisco. The book is interesting as record- 
ing the judgment of two distinguished zoologists 
upon the work of the most famous gardener of the 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



301 



world. Two essays are here, since each writer would 
give his own individual impression of Mr. Burbank's 
oft-recorded achievements. The first author quotes 
largely Mr. Burbank's own words, his own account 
of results attained, and simply credits the gardener 
with an artist's genius in putting into practice the 
principles of Darwin. Dr. Kellogg tells us the same 
things, cites many of the same facts by way of 
illustration, declares that Mr. Burbank has brought 
to light no new principle, but has excelled all other 
experimenters among plants by his delicacy of touch, 
his boldness, and the magnitude of the scale on which 
experiment is conducted. Each author contributes 
also a vorwort, or introductory note ; the first a 
biographical appreciation, the second more nearly 

prefatory. 

o . . , People and scenes of Northern Italy, 

Sauntertngs and r . , i i r 

observations in together With plants and pets, form 
Northei-n Italy, ^i^g subject of " Under Petraia, with 
some Saunterings " (John Lane Co.), by the author 
of " In a Tuscan Garden." The writer is an amiable, 
cultured, travelled woman, who deliberately lays 
claim to advancing years, and allows her pen to 
wander with entertaining inconsequence from Jackie, 
a beloved cat, to the moral regeneration of Italy. 
The spirit of the first part of the book may be caught 
from the printed summary of Chapter I. : " How 
Eugenio broke the Gamberaia Pot and came to a 
Bad End — Antonio the Childlike and Bland — The 
Cow that died and lived again — Additions to the 
Live-stock." Probably the most interesting division 
is the sixth, describing what goes to the making of a 
Buona Signora. ( Ctiore is the key which unlocks 
all doors, the cloak that covers any number of sins. ) 
The later essays recall various " saunterings," now 
to Bologna la Grassa, now in the Euganean Hills, 
now over the border to an idyllic and unspoiled 
valley of Switzlerland. The volume is frankly 
unambitious ; but if one cares to read in the writer's 
spirit, an hour with its pages will give much quiet 
enjoyment. 



BRIEFER MENTION. 



Professor C. H. Grandgent is preparing for " Heath's 
Modern Language Series "an annotated edition of "The 
Divine Comedy," and the " Inferno " volume is now at 
hand. This appears to be the first American edition of 
the poem to be presented in the orthodox text-book form 
for the use of college students. The notes are at the 
bottom of the page, and not voluminous to overburden 
readers; each canto is prefaced by an " argument," and 
there is a condensed and useful introductory essay. 

Dr. C. B. Thompson has offered church workers a 
very careful study, within certain limits, of the attitude 
of wage-earners toward the church and religion, and 
the duty of those who are identified with these institu- 
tions. It voices a call which ought to be heeded. The 
author discusses the alienation of the wage-earners from 
the churches, the attitude of the churches toward the 
workingmen, institutional methods, missions, settle- 
ments, and Christianity and socialism. In his crit- 
icism of socialism the author is not always happy and 



critical, although he means to be fair. The recom- 
mendations for practical methods in the latter part of 
the book are suggestive but do not carry us very far 
into details. 

Professor Henry Rogers Seager's " Political Econ- 
omy " is a briefer treatment of the science than is given 
in the author's " Introduction to Economics." It is a 
book fitted to provide a rather stiff course for high 
schools, and a fairly satisfactory one for colleges. Clear- 
ness of statement, logical cogency, and the quality of 
up-to-dateness are the distinguishing marks of this 
admirable treatise, which we take pleasure in commend- 
ing. Messrs.Henry Holt & Co. are the publishers. 

In Sir Arthur Clay's translation of M. Leroy Beau- 
lieu's " Collectivism " (Dutton), English readers are 
enabled to come into contact with one of the ablest 
economists of modern life. Beaulieu is known as an 
individualist of somewhat extreme type, but he is intelli- 
gent and critical in his analysis of the teachings of the 
socialists. Making proper allowance for his bias, one 
may trust the descriptions and definitions of this writer 
as fairly representative. With the enormous growth of 
socialistic thought and action in America, this translation 
of a classic comes at the right time and deserves attention. 

A new book by Canon Barnett and Mrs. Barnett is wel- 
come at this time, because they both have dwelt among 
the people of London and studied their needs. The 
present collection of " Essays toward Social Reform " 
(Macmillan) covers the subject of social reforms, pov- 
erty, education, recreation, and housing. Of course 
these papers are written from the standpoint of a care- 
ful and sympathetic observer of English conditions, but 
there is in them a universal human element which gives 
them more than common interest for us in America, 
where the same problems are pressing for solution. 

To most people it will seem strange to think of 
Grover Cleveland as a shy, sensitive, companionable, 
warm-hearted man, fond of children and adored by 
them. We have come to admire him as a statesman 
of rugged honesty, wisdom, high ideals, and splendid 
fighting qualities ; we now see through the revelations 
of those who knew the man that he was one to be 
loved as well as to be admired. The little book, 
"Mr. Cleveland: A Personal Impression," by Mr. Jesse 
Lynch Williams, a friend and neighbor of the former 
President, gives a charming portrait of the man in his 
later years, that shows him lovable as well as great. 
(Dodd, Mead & Co.) 

To the fourteen volumes of their library edition of 
the novels of Victor Hugo in English, Messrs. Little, 
Brown, & Co. have now added eight volumes of the 
miscellaneous writings in prose and verse. Three of 
these volumes are occupied by " Napoleon the Little " 
and " The History of a Crime," three by the dramatic 
works, and the remaining two by a selection of the 
poems. The translations of the prose volumes are 
unacknowledged ; of the thirteen dramas, ten are trans- 
lated by Mr. George Burnham Ives, two by Mrs. Newton 
Croslaud, and one by Mr. Frederick L. Slous. The 
poems are done into English by a great variety of hands, 
and it is evident that the edition has searched far and 
wide for the best versions. Mr. Henry Carrington, Sir 
George Young, and Mr. N. R. Tyerman are responsible 
for the gfreater number of translations. Miss Toru 
Dutt's versions are also represented, and there are a few 
by such men as Mr. Andrew Lang, Sir Edwin Arnold, 
and Dr. Richard Garnett. We miss examples of the 
remarkable translations made by Mr. W. J. Lenton. 



302 



THE DIAL 



[May 1, 



Notes. 



To the " Oxford Library of Practical Theology," pub- 
lished by Messrs. Longmans, Green, & Co., a volume 
on "Immortality," by Mr. E. E. Holmes, is now added. 

"The Christian Doctrine of God," by Dr. William 
Newton Clarke, has just been added by Messrs. Charles 
Scribner's Sons to their " International Theological 
Library." 

A new edition of the Abb^ Loisy's " The Gospel and 
the Church," translated by Mr. Christopher Home, with 
an introduction by Dr. Newman Smyth, is published by 
the Messrs. Scribner. 

Herbert's " A Priest to the Temple," with an intro- 
duction and notes by the Rev. Joseph B. Cheshire, 
Bishop of North Carolina, is a recent publication of 
Mr. Thomas Whittaker. 

"The Wisdom of Solomon," edited by the Rev. J. A. F. 
Gregg, is now added to the " Cambridge Bible for 
Schools and Colleges," of which the Messrs. Putnam 
are the American agents. 

To the series of " Handbooks of Archaeology and 
Antiquities," published by the Ma«millan Co., there is 
now added a treatise on " Greek Architecture," the 
work of Professor Allan Marquand. 

" Shakespeare's Complete Sonnets," in a new classi- 
fied arrangement made by Mr. C. M. Walsh, and fur- 
nished with both introduction and notes, is a recent 
publication of Mr. T. Fisher Unwin. 

The publication plans regarding Mrs. Humphry 
Ward's new novel, " Marriage k la Mode," previously 
announced for next Fall, have been changed and the book 
will appear during the present month. 

The veteran dramatic critic, Mr. William Winter, 
whose volume of literary recollections entitled " Old 
Friends " will appear this month, is busily engaged in 
preparing a biography of Richard Mansfield for publi- 
cation next Fall. 

" Sayings of Buddha the Iti-vuttaka," a Pali work 
of the Buddist Canon, is now for the first time translated 
into English, and published at the Columbia University 
Press. The translation and editorial matter are the work 
of Dr. Justin Hartley Moore. 

Messrs. Harper & Brothers publish a new and enlarged 
edition, two volumes in one, of " The Life and Letters 
of Lord Macaulay," by Sir George Trevelyan, made 
more desirable than any previous edition by the incor- 
poration of the recently published marginal notes of 
Macaulay. 

" Measure for Measure," " The Merry Wives of 
Windsor," and « All's Well That Ends Well," edited 
by the Misses Charlotte Porter and Helen A. Clarke, 
are late additions to the "First Folio Shakespeare," 
now about half complete. The Messrs. Crowell are the 
publishers. 

" The Color of Rome " is the title of an important 
illustrated book which is in preparation by Messrs. 
George W. Jacobs & Co. for publication this year. It 
is the work of Mr. O. M. Potter, and will be profusely 
illustrated from water-color drawings and sepia studies 
by the Japanese artist, Yoshio Markino. 

The Newberry Library issues its annual report in a 
thin pamphlet whose seven sections, called " exhibits," 
attend strictly to business. The essential facts of the 
year's work and the year's growth are stated with no 
waste of words, the librarian's report occupying but two 



pages. The longest " exhibit " is the list of donors and 
their donations, covering seventeen pages. From the 
printed " statement of assets," wherein is set down a 
balance in bank of thirty-six thousand dollars, it is 
manifest that the library continues to enjoy material 
prosperity. 

A bibliography of Trenton, N. J., based upon mate- 
rial in the local public library, and making a pamphlet 
of twenty-eight pages, has been prepared and published 
by the library authorities. Among much of honorable 
record in the city's history, the patriotic Trentonian 
will read with some shock to his civic pride that before 
the place took its present name from William Trent 
(ob. Dec. 29, 1724) it was contumeliously styled " Little- 
worth." 

The following books, not previously announced, will 
be published by Houghton Mifflin Co. next month: 
" Military Hygiene," by Maj . Percy H. Ashburn, U. S. A. ; 
"Economic Heresies," by Sir Nathaniel Nathan; "Mon- 
cure D. Conway: Addresses and Reprints, 1850-1907 "; 
and "Charles Edward Garman: A Memorial Volume." 
The new edition of " The Life and Letters of George 
Ticknor," announced by this house, has been postponed 
until the early autumn. 

The new Hbrary law passed by the Vermont legisla- 
ture considerably enlarges the State Library Commis- 
sion's powers by authorizing it to render more substantial 
aid to struggling town libraries and to hold each year a 
school of instruction for such library workers of the state 
as may choose to attend ; " and the necessary expense 
of each such librarian in attendance . . . may be paid 
by the town, city or incorporated village in which said 
librarian is employed." Vermont is little in area and 
population, but big in public spirit and in its devotion 
to the education and enlightenment of its people. 

The Sunday-opening movement agitated by those who 
have at heart the best interests of the humbler fre- 
quenters of public libraries, museums, and art-galleries, 
has received something of a set-back where one would 
least expect it. The city of Maiden, a suburb of Boston, 
has found its extension of library and art-gallery priv- 
ileges to Sunday visitors so little appreciated, and so 
inadequately supported by municipal appropriation of 
funds for the purpose, that it has been regretfully dis- 
continued by the board of trustees of the combined 
public library and gallery of art. 



Topics in IjBAding Periodicals. 

May, 1909. 

Abstraction, An Abuse of. William James. Popular Science. 
Africa, East, Hunting in. P. C. Madeira. Metropolitan. 
Africa, East, The Hunter's Paradise. D. A. Willey. Putnam. 
Alaska-Yukon-Pacific Exposition. A. Wilhelm. Putnam. 
Allison, Senator, Recollections of. A. W. Dunn. Rev. of Revs. 
Amendments, The War. A. E. Pillsbury. No. Amer. Review. 
Amusements, New York's. E. S. Martin. Harper. 
Anarchist, Making an. Frank Bailey. World's Woi-k. 
Antarctic Continent. The. C. C. Adams. Review of Reviews. 
Architecture, Domestic. Recent Designs in. Studio. 
Army, An International. A. H. Dutton. World To-day. 
Army Letters from an Oflacer's Wife. F. M. A. Roe. Appleton. 
Art Shows, Three Recent. Elizabeth L. Gary. Putnam. 
Astronomical Problem, A Famous. Popular Science. 
Austen, Jane, at Lyme Regis. A. C. Benson. Putnam. 
Author's Vade Mecum. F. W. Crowninshield. Bookman. 
Banks, Postal Savings. F. W, Fitzpatrick. Appleton. 
Baseball, Fine Points of. H. S. Fullerton. American. 
Beauvais. Elizabeth Robins Pennell. Scribner. 
Birth Rate, Decline in. F.L. Hoffman. North American Review. 
Black Hand, Problem of the. A. Woods. McClure. 
Blind, The New Work for the. S. H. Bishop. Scribner. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



303 



Books, The Hundred Worst. S. M. Crothers. Atlantic. 
Brass, Italico, Paintings of. L. Brosch. Studio. 
Brazil, The New. Paul Reinsch. World To-day. 
Caine, Hall, Autobiography of — IX. Appleton. 
Canadian Northwest and the Railroads. World's Work. 
Canadian Northwest, Immigration to. A. C. Laut. Scribner. 
Charter-Making in America. C. R. Woodruff. Atlantic. 
Children's Court Cases. Jessie M. Keys. Woi-ld's Work. 
China, Constitutional Government in. No. American'Jteview . 
China, The New Regime in. E. F. Egan. Everybody's. 
Church and State, Separation of. W. Schoenfeld. No. Am. Rev. 
Church Building, The Modem. J. S. Barney. Munsey. 
Circus, The, Taken Seriously. R. Bergengren. Atlantic. 
Cities, Beautifying Our. C. R. Woodruff. World To-day. 
Cleveland's Estimate of his Contemporaries. McClure. 
Coal-Mine Disasters, Avoiding. G. E. Mitchell. Mev. of Revs. 
(College vs. the High Schools. J. P. Monroe. World's Work. 
Crawford, Francis Marion. F. T. Cooper. Bookman, 
Crawford, Marion. Review of Reviews. 
Curtis, Wm. Fuller, Wood Panels by. Studio. 
Dickinson, Jacob M., Secretary of War. Munsey. 
Disease, Occupational. C. E. A. Peabody. Atlantic. 
Divorce. James Cardinal Gibbons. Scribner. 
Divorce, Increasing, Meaning of. E. A. Ross. Scribner, 
Enunanuel Movement, The. L. P. Powell. Review of Reviews. 
Emmanuel Work, The. Dr. J. C. Fisher. Review of Reviews. 
Emmanuel Worker's Record, An. Review of Reviews. 
Engineer, The Web-foot. Benj. Brooks. McClure. 
Engineering College, A Novel. E. F. Du Brul. American. 
English as the World Language. A. Schinz. North American. 
English Capitals of Industry, Three. W. D. Howells. Harper. 
English. The, in India. Charles Johnston. North Am. Review. 
Enneking, John J. Charles H. Pepper. World To-day. 
Everglades, Reclaiming the. D. A. Simmons. World To-day. 
Fiction, Types of. John Wolcott. Bookm,an. 
Finance and Business. Review of Reviews. 
Fire Losses in the U.S. L. Windmiiller. No. American Review. 
French Streets, Humanness of. W. B. Blake. Scribner. 
Gabrilowitsch, Ossip, A Talk with. D. G. Mason. Scribner, 
Game, Big, in East Africa. E. B. Bronson. Scribner. 
Ghetto, the. Club Houses of. Elias Tobenkin. World To-day. 
Ghost, On the Trail of the — II. Vance Thompson. Hampton. 
Gibbs, Josiah Willard. F. H. Garrison. Popular Science. 
God, The Unspeakable Name of. H. J. Markland. Munsey, 
Golf Links, The Ideal. H. J. Whigham. Scribner. 
Gun, The Noiseless. Hiram P. Maxim. World's Work, 
Handy Man, The. Eugene Wood. Hampton. 
Harlem. In and Around. Bookman. 

Harpswell Laboratory, The. Max Morse. Popular Science. 
Hawthorne, Charles W. Arthur Hoeber. Studio. 
Healing.Mental.andtheChurch. W.A.Purrington. No. Am. Rev. 
"Henry v.," Shakespeare's. F. Warre Cornish. Harper, 
Hetch-Hetchy Valley. P. M. Fultz. World To-day. 
Home, The Sanctity of the. Chas. F. Aked. Appleton. 
Howe, Julia Ward. Florence Painter. Putnam, 
Howells, W. D., at Seventy-two. Van W. Brooks. World's Work. 
Ibis, Hunting the. Charles L. Bull. Metropolitan. 
Immortality : Is it Desirable? G.L.Dickinson. Atlantic. 
Investor, The Country, and His Mortgages. World's Work. 
Italy and the Bookmakers. Charlotte Harwood. Putnam, 
Japanese Color Prints — VI. Studio . 

Japan's Financial Condition. A. Kinnosuke. Rev. of Revs. 
Legal Development, New Era in. H.Taylor. No. Am,. Review. 
Life, Chemical Interpretation of. R. K. Duncan. Harper. 
Life Insurance Ambassador, The. W.J.Graham. World To-day. 
Life Insurance in Local Companies. World's Work. 
Lincoln and the Boy Regiment. M. S. Gerry. Hampton. 
Lion, The Land of the — I. W. S. Rainsford. World's Work. 
London, The Fascination of. F. M. Hueffer. Putnam. 
Mac Veagh, Franklin, Secretary of Treasury. Munsey. 
Memory, Tricks of. W. T. Lamed. Lippincott. 
Menard, Rene. Achille Segard. Studio. 
Messina Disaster, Letter Written after the. McClure. 
Mexico, Progressive. Nevin O. Winter. World To-day. 
Munich, City of Good Nature. R. H. Schauffler. Scribner. 
Navy, Our Undermanned. Robley D. Bvans. Hampton. 
Negroes, Georgia, Savings of. W. E. B. DuBois. World's Work. 
Newspapers as Historical Sources. Y.F.Rhodes. Atlantic. 
Oklahoma and the Indian. Emerson Hough. Hampton. 
Opera Singers, Earnings of. George Middleton. Bookman. 
Ostrich, Naturalizing the. W. Robinson. Review of Reviews. 
Panama Canal, Type of. C. E. Grunsky. Popular Science. 
Panama Critics, Answer to the. W. H. Taft. McClure. 
Payne Bill, The, and Canada. E. Porritt. North Am. Review. 
Philippines, Future of the. E. Winslow. North Am. Review. 
Plagrues, Conquered and Unconquered. V..Thompson, Munsey. 
Portraits in Enamel. Alexander Fisher, Studio. 



Primary, The Direct. Judson C. Welliver. Munsey. 
Public Sentiment : Recent Results. W.A.White. American, 
Public Service Commissions. W. M. Ivins. Scribner. 
Racquets, The Game of. Harold F. McCormick. World To-day. 
Railroad Problem, Heart of the — II. C. E. Russell. Hampton, 
Railroads and Publicity. James O. Fagan. Atlantic. 
Revivalists, Great. Arthur B. Reeve. Munsey. 
Rothenburg, The Old Red City of. R. Shackleton. Harper. 
Russia and Our Pacific Coast. Mrs. Atherton. No. Am. Review. 
Saloons, A Year of Defeat for. F. C. Iglehart. Review of Reviews. 
Savers, A Nation of Little. C. F. Speare. Review of Reviews. 
School, A Public, in the Slums. W. Talbot. World's Work. 
Schools, English Public. E. T. Tomlinson. Scribner. 
Scientific Congress, Pan-American. L. S. Rowe. Rev. of Revs, 
Sea-elephant Hunting. B. D. Cleveland. Hampton. 
Secret Service of the U. 8. A. D. Albert, Jr. Munsey. 
Sherman, General, Letters of. M. A. De W. Howe. Scribner. 
Sick, Two Million, Cure for. F. M. Bjorkman. World's Work. 
Socialism, a Cult of Failure. J. L. Laughlin. Scribner. 
Sorolla and Zuloaga. Christian Brinton. Scribner. 
SoroUa, Joaquin, y Bastida. T. Y. Ybarra. World's Work. 
Southern Problems. Harris Dickson. Everybody's. 
" Spectator," the. Advertisements of . L.Lewis. Atlantic. 
Stage, The Indecent. S. H. Adams. AmeiHcan. 
Stereoscope in Art Instruction. W. M. Johnson. Studio. 
Swinburne, Last Victorian Poet. Review of Revietvs. 
Tariff Bureau, A Permanent. S. C. Loomis. Popular Science. 
Tariff Revision : Consumer's Standpoint. Popular Science. 
Tariff Revision : Importer's Standpoint. Popular Science. 
Tariff Revision : Manufacturer's Standpoint. Popular Science, 
Tariff, The, and Adolescent Industries. World To-day. 
Thackeray and Mrs. Brookfield. Lyndon Orr. Munsey. 
Theatre, The New. James L. Ford. Appleton. 
Theatres, Our Foreign. Lucy F. Pierce. World To-day. 
Trinity, The Case against. R. S. Baker. American. 
Tuberculosis and the Red Cross. Metropolitan. 
Tuberculosis, War on — II. O. F. Lewis. Metropolitan. 
Twain, Mark. Archibald Henderson. Harper. 
Twain, Mark, at Stormfield. A. B. Paine. Harper. 
Unionism, The Crisis in. Henry White. No. American Review. 
Venezuelan Wilderness, The. C.W. and M.B. Beebe. Harper. 
Vine, The, in Roman History. G. Ferrero. McClure. 
Violinists, Great. James Huneker. Everybody's. 
Wagner, Cosima. Willis Steell. Munsey. 
Wall Street Game. Cost of the. F. U. Adams. Everybody's. 
Water Power Trust, The National. J. C. Welliver. McClure. 
Weather Bureau, Value of . Emerson Hough. Everybody's, 
WeUes, Gideon, Diary of. A tlantic. 
Woman Problem, The — I. Ouida. Lippincott. 
Women, The Rights of. Joseph C. Lincoln. Appleton. 
Wood Engraving, The Return of. Gardner Teall. Bookman, 
Wrought-Iron Work. E. and W. Spencer. Studio. 
Yosemite, Camping above the. Harriet Monroe. Putnam. 
Young Turks Movement, Women in. Demetra Brown. Atlantic, 
Zoological Park, New York's. E. R. Sanborn. Metropolitan, 



liiST OF New Books. 



[The following list, containing 129 titles, includes books 
received by The Dial since its last issue.^ 

BIOGRAPHY AND REMINISCENCES. 
The Iff.P. for Russia : Reminiscences and Correspondence of 

Madame Olga Novikofl. Edited by W. T. Stead. In 2 vols., 

illus. in photogravure, etc., 8vo. G. P. Putnam's Sons. 

$7.50 net. 
Gentlemen Errant : Being the Journeys and Adventures of 

Four Noblemen in Europe during the Fifteenth and Six- 
teenth Centuries. By Mrs. Henry Gust. Illus., 8vo, pp. 551. 

E. P. Dutton & Co. $4. net. 
The Valley of Shadows : Recollections of the Lincoln 

Country, 1858-1863. By Francis Grierson. Large 8vo, pp. 278. 

Houghton MifHin Co. $2. net. 
Tragedy daeens of the Georgian Era. By John Fyvie. 

Illus., large 8vo, pp. 316. E. P. Dutton & Co. $4. net. 
Charles-Augustin Sainte-Beuve. By George McLean 

Harper. " French Men of Letters." With portrait, 12mo, 

pp. 389. J. B. Lippincott Co. $1.50 net. 
A Favourite of Napoleon : Memoirs of Mademoiselle George. 

Edited by Paul Cheramy. Illus. in photogravure, 8vo, pp. 320. 

John McBride Co. $2.50 net. 
Random Reminiscences of Men and Events. By John D. 

Rockefeller. With frontispiece, 12mo, pp. 188. Doubleday 

Page & Co. $1. net. 



304 



THE DIAL 



[May 1, 



HISTORY. 

The Third French Republic. By Frederic Lawton, M.A. 
Illus., large 8vo, pp. 395. J. B. Lippincott Co. $3.50 net. 

The Story of New Netherland. By William Elliot Griffls. 
Illus.. 12mo, pp. 292. Houghton Mifflin Co. $1.25 net. 

The Development of the Engrlish Law of Conspiracy. 
By James Wallace Bryan. 8vo, pp. 161. " Studies in His- 
torical and Political Science." Baltimore: Johns Hopkins 
Press. Paper, 75 cts. net. 

Evolution of Seward's Mexican Policy. By James Marton 
Callahan. 8vo, pp. 88. Morgan, W. Va. : Department of 
History and Political Science, West Virginia University. 
Paper, 75 cts. net. 

GENERAIi LITERATURE. 

Shelley. By Francis Thompson, with Introduction by George 
Wyndham. 12mo, pp. 91. Charles Scribner's Sons. $1. net. 

A Georgrian Paereant. By Frank Frankfort Moore. Illus. in 
photogravure, etc., large 8vo, pp. 346. E. P. Dutton & Co. 
$3.50 net. 

Is Shakespeare DeadP From My Autobiography. By Mark 
Twain. With portraits, 8vo, pp. 150. Harper & Brothers. 
$1.25 net. 

Xjetters and Memorials of Wendell Phillips Garrison, 
Literary Editor of "The Nation,'' 1865-1906. With frontis- 
piece in photogravure, 8vo, pp. 298. Houghton Mifflin Co. 
$1.50 net. 

Tales Within Tales : Adapted from the Fables of Pilpai. By 
Sir Arthur N. Wolliston. 12mo, pp. 118. " Komances of the 
East Series." E. P. Dutton & Co. $1. net. 

library of Southern Literature. Edited by Edwin Ander- 
son Alderman, Joel Chandler Harris, Charles William Kent, 
and Others. Vols. I., II., and III. Each with portraits in 
photogravure, large 8vo. Atlanta, Ga.: Martin & Hoy t Co. 

Verse Satire in England Before the Renaissance. By 
Samuel Marion Tucker, Ph.D. 8vo, pp. 245. " Columbia 
University Press Studies in English." MacmillanCo. Paper, 
$1. net. 

The Functions of Criticism : A Lecture Delivered before the 
University on February 22, 1909. By D. NicoU Smith, M.A. 
8vo, pp. 24. Oxford University Press. Paper. 

VERSE AND DRAMA. 
Artemis To Actaeon, and Other Verse. By Edith Wharton. 

12mo, pp. 90. Charles Scribner's Sons. $1.25 net. 
Star>Glow and Song^. By Charles Buxton Going. 8vo,pp.204. 

Harper & Brothers. $1.20 net. 
The World's Triumph : A Play. By Louis James Block. 12mo, 

pp. 166. J. B. Lippincott Co. $1.25 net. 

NEW EDITIONS OF STANDARD LITERATURE. 

The Complete Poetical Works of Edgar Allan Poe, With 
Three Essays on Poetry. Edited, with Memoir, Notes, and 
Bibliography, by R. Brimley Johnson. With portrait, 12mo, 
pp. 316. Oxford University Press. 75 cts. net. 

Wilson's Art of Rhetorique, 1560. Edited by G. H. Mair. 
12mo, pp. 236. Oxford University Press. $1.75 net. 

The Novels and Tales of Henry James, New York edition. 
Vol. XV., The Lesson of the Master, The Death of the Lion, 
etc. ; vol. XVI., The Author of Beltrafflo, The Middle Years, 
etc. Each with frontispiece in photogravure. 8vo. Charles 
Scribner's Sons. (Sold only in sets by subscription.) 

Shakespeare's Complete Sonnets: A New Arrangement. 
Edited, with Introduction and Notes, by C. M. Walsh. 12mo, 
pp. 285. London : T. Fisher Unwin. 

Rabbi Ben Ezra. By Robert Browning. Square 16mo, pp. 22. 
Portland, Maine : Thomas B. Mosher. 40 cts. net. 

Pope's Rape of the Lock. Edited by George Holden. 12mo, 
pp. 102. Oxford University Press. 

Selected Poems of Matthew Arnold. Edited, with Intro- 
duction and notes, by Hereford B. George and A. M. Leigh. 
12mo, pp. 124. Oxford University Press. 50 cts. net. 

Scenes of Clerical Life. By George Eliot, with Introduction 
by Annie Matheson, 16mo, pp. 424. " World's Classics 
Series." London : Henry Frowde. 

FICTION. 
Mr. Opp. By Alice Hegan Rice. Illus., 16mo, pp.320. Century 

Co. $1. 
In a Mysterious Way. By Anne Warner. Illus., 12mo, 

pp. 290. Little, Brown, & Co. $1.50. 
Our Village. By Joseph C. Lincoln. Illus., 12mo, pp. 183. 

D. Appleton & Co. $1.50 net. 
A Year Out of Life. By Mary B. Waller. 12mo, pp. 306. 

D. Appleton & Co. $1.50. 



The Lodger Overhead, and Others. By Charles Belmont 

Davis. Illus., 12mo, pp. 370. Charles Scribner's Sons. $1.50. 
The Climber. By E. F. Benson. American edition; with 

frontispiece, 12mo, pp. 473. Doubleday, Page & Co. $1.40. 
The Glass House. By Florence Morse Kingsley; illus. by 

Alice Barber Stephens. 12mo, pp. 312. Dodd, Mead & Co. 

$1.50. 
Merely Players : Stories of Stage Life. By Virginia Tracy. 

12mo, pp. 336. Century Co. $1.50. 
A King in Khaki. By Henry Kitchell Webster. Illus., 12mo, 

pp. 320. D. Appleton & Co. $1.50. 
Dragon's Blood. By Henry Milner Rideout. Illus. in tint, 

12mo, pp. 270. Houghton Mifflin Co. $1.20 net. 
The Strain of White. By Ada Woodruff Anderson. Illus., 

12mo, pp. 300. Little, Brown, & Co. $1.50. 
Lanier of the Cavalry ; or, A Week's Arrest. By General 

CharlesKing. Illus., 12mo, pp.242. J. B. Lippincott Co. $1.25. 
The Man Without a Shadow. By Oliver Cabot. Illus., 12mo, 

pp. 340. D. Appleton & Co. $1.60. 
A Royal Ward. By Percy Brebner. Illus. in color, 12mo, 

pp. 343. Little, Brown, & Co. $1.50. 
Norah Conough. By Walter George Henderson. 12mo, pp. 258. 

Outing Publishing Co. $1.25. 
Salvator. By Perceval Gibbon. 12mo, pp. 324. Doubleday, 

Page & Co. $1.50. 
Dromina. By John Ayscough. 12mo, pp. 477. G. P. Putnam's 

Sons. $1.50. 
Fate and the Butterfly. By Forrest Halsey. Illus; in color, 

etc., 12mo, pp. 276. B. W. Dodge & Co. $1.50. 
The Garden of Girls. By Marian A. Hilton. Illus., 12mo, 

pp.360. Tandy-Thomas Co. $1.50. 
The Gun Runner. By Arthur Stringer. 12mo, pp. 370. B.W. 

Dodge & Co. $1.50. 
Father Abraham. By Ida M. Tarbell. Illus., 12mo, pp. 39. 

Moffat, Yard & Co. 50 cts. net. 

TRAVEL AND DESCRIPTION. 

The Rockies of Canada : A Revised and Enlarged Edition of 

" Camping in the Canadian Rockies." By Walter Dwight 

Wilcox, F.R.G.S. Illus. in photogravure, large 8vo, pp. 300. 

G. P. Putnam's Sons. $5. net. 
Sunset Playgrounds : Fishing Days and Others in California 

and Canada. By F. G. Aflalo. Illus., 8vo, pp. 251. Charles 

Scribner's Sons. $2.25 net. 
My Experiences of Cirprus. By Basil Stewart. Enlarged 

edition; illus., 12mo, pp. 267. E. P. Dutton & Co. $2. net. 
Central Italy and Rome : Handbook for Travellers. By Karl 

Baedeker. Fifteenth revised edition; with maps, 16mo, 

pp.527. Charles Scribner's Sons. $2.25 net. 

PUBLIC AFFAIRS. 

A History of Modem Banks of Issue, with an Account of 
the Economic Crises of the Nineteenth Century and the 
Crisis of 1907. By Charles A. Conant. 8vo, pp. 751. G. P. 
Putnam's Sons. $3.50 net. 

The Methods of Taxation Compared with the Established 
Principles of Justice. By David MacGregor Means. 8vo, 
pp. 380. Dodd, Mead & Co. $2.50 net. 

The Panama Canal and Its Makers. By Vaughan Comisb. 
Illus. and with maps, 8vo, pp. 192. Little, Brown, and Co. 
$1.50 net. 

Neglected Neighbors : Stories of Life in the Alleys, Tene- 
ments, and Shanties of the National Capital. By Charles 
Frederick Weller and Eugenia Winston Weller. Illus., large 
8vo, pp. 342. John C. Winston Co. $1.50 net. 

The Fate of Iciodorum : Being the Story of a City Made Rich 
by Taxation. By David Starr Jordan. 16mo, pp. 111. Henry 
Holt & Co. 90 cts. net. 

Ideals of Democracy : Conversations in a Smoking Car. By 
John T. Dye. 12mo, pp. 174. Bobbs-Merrill Co. 90 cts. net. 

The Political and Economic Organization of Modem 
Japan. By Gregory Wilenkin. 8vo, pp. 173. Yokohama: 
Kelly & Walsh. Paper. 

RELIGION AND THEOLOGY. 
The Laws of Friendship, Human and Divine. By Henry 

Churchill King. 12mo, pp. 159. Macmillan Co. $1.25 net. 
The Teaching of Jesus. By Leo Tolstoy ; trans. by L. and A • 

Maude. 16mo, pp. 120. "Library of Living Thought." Harper 

& Brothers. 75 cts. net. 
Modem Thought and the Crisis In Belief : The Baldwin 

Lectures, 1909. By R. M. Wenley. 12mo, pp. 364. Macmillan 

Co. $1.50 net. 
The Truth and Error of Christian Science. By M. Carta 

Sturge. 8vo, pp. 185. E. P. Dutton & Co. $1.50 net. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



305 



The Beingr and Attributes of God. By the Rev. Francis J. 
Hall, D.D. 12mo, pp. 310. Longmans, Green, & Co. $1.50 net. 

A Valid Christianity for To-Day. By Charles D. William. 
DD.. LL.D. 12mo, pp.289. Macmillan Co. $1.50 net. 

Christ and the Eastern Soul : The Witness of the Oriental 
Consciousness to Jesus Christ. By Charles Cuthbert Hall. 
D.D. 8vo, pp. 208. University of Chicago Press. $1.25 net. 

Epochs in the Life of Paul : A Study of Development in Paul's 
Career. By A. T. Robertson, A.M., D.D. 12mo, pp. 327. 
Charles Scribner's Sons. $1.25 net. 

Systematic Theologry. By Augustus Hopkins Strong, D.D., 
LL.D. Vol. III. Soteriology; or. The Doctrine of Salva- 
tion. 8vo, pp. 389. American Baptist Publication Society. 
$2.50 net. 

Aspects of Christian Hystlcism. By the Rev. W. Major 
Scott, M.A. 12mo, pp. 171. E. P. Dutton & Co. $1. net. 

Personal Religion in Egypt Before Christianity. By W. M. 
Flinders Petrie, D.C.L., LL.D. 16mo, pp. 173. " Library of 
Living Thought." Harper & Brothers. 75 cts. net. 

History of the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church of 
New York City, New York, from 1808 to 1908, Together 
with an Account of its Centennial Anniversary Celebration. 
Prepared by Henry W. Jessup. Illus., large 8vo, pp. 283. 
New York : Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church Centennial 
Committee. $1.25. 

Church History Handbooks. Book I., The Early Period. 
By Henry C. Vedder. 16mo, pp. 120. American Baptist 
Publication Society. 40 cts. net. 

Some Assurances of Immortality. By John B. N. Berry. 
12mo, pp. 66. R. F. Fenno & Co. 

The Sunday-School Teacher's School. Part I., by H. T. 
Musselman ; Part II., by H. E. Tralle. 16mo, pp. 223. " The 
National Teacher-Training Institute Text-Books." Amer- 
ican Baptist Publication Society. 40 cts. net. 

PHILOSOPHY AND PSYCHOLOGY. 

A Pluralistic TJnlverse : Hibbert Lectures at Manchester 
College on the Present Situation in Philosophy. By William 
James. 8vo, pp. 400. Longmans, Green, and Co. $1.50 net. 

Psychotherapy. By Hugo Munsterberg, M.D. 8vo, pp. 401. 
Moffat, Yard & Co. $2. net. 

Self-Control and How to Secure It (L'Education de Soi- 
M6me). By Paul Dubois ; trans, by Harry Hutcheson Boyd" 
12mo, pp. 337. Funk & Wagnalls Co. $1.50 net. 

An Experimental Study of Sleep. By Boris Sidis, Ph.D., 
M.D. 8vo, pp. 40. Boston: Gorham Press. Paper, $1. net. 

My Life as a Dissociated Personality. By B. C. A., with 
Introduction by Morton Prince, M.D. 8vo, pp. 47. Boston: 
Gorham Press. Paper, 50 cts. net. 

Psychologrical Interpretations of Society. By Michael 
M. Davis, Jr., Ph.D. 8vo, pp. 260. "Columbia University 
Studies in History, Economics, and Public Law." Long- 
mans, Green & Co, Paper, $2. net. 

ART AND ARCHITECTURE. 

Greek Architecture. By Allan Marquand, Ph.D., L.H.D' 
Illus., 8vo, pp. 425. " Handbooks of Archaeology and Anti- 
quities." Macmillan Co. $2.25 net. 

Freehand Perspective and Sketching: Principles and 
Methods of Expression in the Pictorial Representation of 
Common Objects, Interiors, Buildings, and Landscapes. 
By Dora Miriam Norton. Illus., 4to, pp. 173. Brooklyn: 
Dora Miriam Norton. $3. 

What is a Picture P 8vo,pp.71. A. C. McClurg & Co. 60cts.net 

SCIENCE. 
Human Speech : Its Physical Basis. By N. C. Macnamara, 

F.R.C.S. Illus., 12mo, pp. 284. " International Scientific 

Series." D. Appleton & Co. $1.75 net. 
The Transformations of the Animal World. By Charles 

Deperet. 12mo, pp. 360. " International Scientific Series." 

D. Appleton & Co. $1.75 net. 
Wireless Telegraphy and Telephony: An Elementary 

Treatise. By A. E. Kennelly, A.M. Enlarged edition ; illus., 

12mo. " Present Day Primers." Moffat, Yard & Co. $1. 

HEALTH AND HYGIENE. 
The Emmanuel Movement in a New England Town. By 
Lyman P. Powell. Illus., 12mo, pp. 194. G. P. Putnam's 
Sons. $1.25 net. 
Life's Day : Guide Posts and Danger Signals in! Health. By 
William Seaman Bainbridge, M.D. 12mo, pp. 308. Frederick 
A. Stokes Co. $1.35 net. 

(Continued on next page J 



THE 

Mosher 
Books 

The only collec- 
tion of genu- 
ine hand-made 
paper books at 
popular prices 
in tAmerica. 



THE 

MOSHER BOOKS 

CATALOGUE 



My New Catalogue covering 
every title I have published, 
1891-1908 inclusive, is now 
ready, and will be mailed free 
on request. It is without ques- 
tion a bibelot in itself and as 
choice a production as I can 
hope to offer. 

Thomas B.MosHER 

PORTLAND, MAINE 



BOOKBINDING 

PLAIN AND ARTISTIC, IN ALL VARIETIES OF 
LEATHER 

HENRY BLACKWELL 

University Place and 10th Street, New York City 



JAMES D. BRUNER'S 

HUGO'S DRAMATIC 
CHARACTERS 

II Able Hugo CTiiicism." — Courier-Journal. 
^ Deeply interesting literary criticism."— 27ic Dial. 
A fine specimen of literary criticism of the indactiye 
type." — The Outlook. 

GINN & COMPANY, PUBLISHERS 



D p J C" CT" P" D O ^ '^^ place your manu- 
'•^*'^^' ' ^*^ ■ script with a leading pub- 
lisher. Many unsuccessful manuscripts simply need 
expert revision to make them immediately available. 
This 1 can give, securing results that count. Putnams, 
Appletons, Scribners, Lippincotts, etc., publish my 
own books. Editor, care The Dial. 

OUR ASSISTANCE 

IN THE PURCHASE OF BOOKS, ESPECIALY RARE OR SCARCE ONES, 

IS ALWAYS AVAILABLE, AND HAS HELPED MANY CAREFUL BUYERS. 

WE SEND OUR CATALOGUE ON REQUEST. 

THE TORCH PRESS BOOK SHOP, CEDAR RAPIDS. IOWA 

RARF ROOICS' catalogues issued Regularly. 
*^'^**-*-' *-»v-rv^j.'v.fc^ . Next one relates to Lincoln, 
Civil War, and Slavery. Sent Free. 

W. F. STOWE, 167 CUNTON AVE., KINGSTON. N. Y. 

We Make a Specialty of BOOKS and PAMPHLETS 

ON 

RAILROADS, CANALS, BANKING, AND FINANCE 

DIXIE BOOK SHOP 

Catalogue on application. 41 LIBERTY ST., NEW YORK 

THE LOST TALES OF MILETUS 

By EDWARD BULWER LYTTON 

Little ima^nation is necessary to fancy these poems as actual 
translations of the Milesian legends, which, except for occasional 
mention by writers of ancient Greece and Rome, have left no 
trace of themselves. 

STURGIS & WALTON COMPANY, PUBLISHERS 
31-33 EAST 27th STREET, NEW YORK 



306 



THE DIAL 



[Mayl, 



LIST OF NEW BOOK 8 — continued 

The Doctor Says : A Book of Advice for the Household with 
Practical Hints for the Preservation of Health and the Pre- 
vention of Disease. 8vo, pp. 342. George W. Jacobs & Co. 
|1. net. 

The Matter with Nervousness. By H. C. Sawyer, M.D. 
l2mo, pp. 210. San Francisco : Cunningham, Curtiss & Welch. 

Vital Economy ; or, How to Conserve Your Strength. By 
John H.Clarke, M.D. 12mo, pp.96. A.WesselsCo. 30cts.net. 

BOOKS OF REFEBENCE. 

Annual Masrazine Subject Index for 1908: A Subject 
Index to One Hundred and Twenty American Periodicals 
and Society Publications. By Frederick Winthrop Faxon, 
A. B. Large 8vo, pp. 193. Boston Book Co. $3. net. 

Thesaurus of English Words and Phrases. By Peter Mark 
Roget, F.R.8. Enlarged edition, 8vo, pp. 670. Longmans, 
Green, & Co. $1.60 net. 

BOOKS FOR THE YOUNG. 
A Lincoln Conscript. By Homer Greene. Hlus., 12mo,pp.282. 

Houghton, Mifflin Co. $1.50. 
A Fair of Madcaps. By J. T. Trowbridge. Hlus., 12mo, pp. 869. 

Lothrop, Lee & Shepard Co. $1.50. 
The Silver Cup : Simple Messages to Children from One Who 

Loved Them. By Charles Cuthbert Hall. 12mo, pp. 284. 

Houghton Mifflin Co. $1.25 net. 
Snnnyfield : The Adventures of Podsy and June. By Louise 

Morgan Sill. Hlus., 8vo, pp. 228. Harper & Brothers. $1.25. 
When Mother Lets Us Garden : A Book for Little Folk Who 

Want to Make Gardens and Don't Know How. By Frances 

Duncan. Hlus, 12mo, pp.111. Moffat, Yard & Co. 75cts.net. 
Adventures In Field and Forest. By Frank H. Spearman. 

Harold Martin, F. S. Palmer, William Drysdale, and Others. 

Hlus., 12mo, pp. 212. " Harper's Young People Series." 

Harper & Brothers. 60 cts. 
On Track and Diamond. By George Harvey, van Tassel 

Sutphen, James M. Hallowell, J. Conover, and S. Scoville, Jr. 

Hlus.. 12mo, pp. 221. " Harper's Athletic Series." Harper 

& Brothers. 60 cts. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 
The Great Lakes: The Vessels that Plough Them, Their 
Owners, Sailors and Cargoes, Together with a Brief History. 
By James Oliver Curwood. Hlus. in photogravure, etc., 
large 8vo, pp. 227. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $3.50 net. 
A History of Theatrical Art in Ancient and Modern Times. 
By Karl Mantzius ; trans, by Louise von Cossel. Vol. V., 
The Great Actors of the Eighteenth Century. Hlus., large 
8vo, pp. 422. J. B. Lippincott Co. $3.50 net. 
Nature and Ornament. By Lewis F. Day. Part I., Nature 
the Raw Material of Design. Hlus., 8vo, pp. 126. Charles 
Scribner's Sons. $2. net. 
When Railroads Were New. By Charles Frederick Carter ; 
with introductory note by Logan G. McPherson. Hlus., 
8vo, pp. 324. Henry Holt & Co. $2. net. 
Modem Accounting: : Its Principles and Some of Its Prob- 
lems. By Henry Rand Hatfield, Ph.D. 12mo, pp. 367. D. 
Appleton & Co. $1.75 net. 
Essays Biographical and Chemical. By Sir William Ram- 
say, K.C.B. Large 8vo, pp.247. E. P. Dutton & Co. $2.50 net. 
The Great Wet Way. By Alan Dale. Hlus., 12mo, pp. 269. 

Dodd, Mead & Co. $1.50 net. 
The Earth's Bounty. By Kate V. Saint Maur. Hlus., 12mo, 

pp. 430. The Macmillan Co. $1.75 net. 
Index to Book-Prices Current for the Second Decade, 1897- 
1906: Key to the Ten Volumes, and Incidentally to Anony- 
mous, Pseudonymous, and Suppressed Literature. By 
William Jaggard. Large 8vo, pp. 1057. London: Elliot 
Stock. 
Psyche's Task : A Discourse Concerning the Influence of 
Superstition on the Growth of Institutions. By J. A. 
Frazer, LL.D. 8vo. pp. 84. Macmillan Co. 80 cts. 
Adventures of the World's Greatest Detectives. By 
George Barton. Hlus., 12mo, pp. 252. John C. Winston Co. 
75 cts. 
English for Foreigners. By Sara R. O'Brien. Hlus., 12mo, 

pp. 158. Houghton Mifflin Co. 50 cts. net. 
The Rubaiyat of Bridge. By Carolyn Wells. Hlus. in color, 

12mo. Harper & Brothers. $1. 
The Story of the Catacombs. By Florence Edythe Blake- 
Hedges. Hlus. in color, etc., 12mo, pp. 148. Jennings & 
Graham. $1. net. 



F. M. HOLLY 

Authors' and Publishers' Representative 

Circulars sent upon request. 156 Fifth Avenue, New York. 



FOR ANY BOOK ON EARTH write to H. H. TIMBY, 

Book Hunter. Catalogues free. Ist Nat. Bank BIdg., Conneaut, O. 



IIQD TYPEWRITTEN. 30c. per thousand words. In duplicate, 40c. 
Ill UU I Send your stories or articles, no matter how short or how long. 
Special rates on book MSS. P. SCHULTETUS, Coui.tebvu,lb, III. 

Authors Seeking: a Publisher 

Should communicate with 
the Cochrane Publishing Co. 
450 Tribune Building, New 
York City 

TVDCU/DITIUP ■ Dramatic, Literary. 4 cents per hundred words. 
I I r CWnl linU > References. M. S. GaPATEic, 156 Fifth Ave., N. Y. 



MANUSCRIPTS 
TYPEWRITTEN 



EXPERT SERVICE 

MODERATE FEES 
L. E. Swartz, 526 Newport, Chicago 



THE ANNUAL 

SUMMER READING NUMBER 

of 

THE DIAL 

WILL BE PUBLISHED JUNE 1 

TTHE CONTENTS OF 
* this special number 
will be devoted to 
reviews and descriptions 
of the season's best 
books for vacation and 
warm-weather reading. 

EVERY READER 
should secure a 
copy. The number will 
form a complete and 
authoritative guide to 
the books in this field 
most worth while — 
and will save much 
time and offer many 
valuable suggestions. 

THE DIAL COMPANY, CHICAGO 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



807 



Lord Rosebery and Public Opinion 

Lord Rosebery, in a letter to the Editor of " Public Opinion " dated 
November 28, 1908, from Dalmeny House, Edinburgh, says: 

" I can truly say that * Public Opinion * is a weekly 
joy to me. It gives me just what I want to read." 

A MARVELLOUS DIGEST 
Dr. William Potts George, LL.D., of the Bedford Street Methodist Episcopal Church, New York, writing to 
the Editor on January 13, 1909, says : 

" I should like to say of your paper that it is the best that comes into my study, either English or American 
I have a weekly English batch of papers and American papers galore, but yours sometimes contains more than 
all of them put together. Every page is readable, and the whole is a marvellous digest not only of the world's 
news, but of important movements in all phases of the world's life." 



PUBLIC OPINION 

A WEEKLY REVIEW OF CURRENT THOUGHT AND ACTIVITY 

Every Friday Edited by PERCY L. PARKER Twopence 

The purpose of PUBLIC OPINION is to provide information by means of a weekly review of current 
thought and activity as they are expressed in the world's newspapers, magazines, and books, and to put on record 
the ideas and activities which make for religious, political, and social progress. 

PUBLIC OPINION will be sent to any place abroad for 13s. per annum. Specimens free on application. 

Orders should be addressed to PUBLIC OPINION, 31 and 32 Temple House, Tallis Street, London, E.C. 



WII I INri WORKER wants literary work. Doctor of 
TT Ai-ii^Ai^VA philosophy, encyclopedist, proofreader, 
translator six languages, typewriter. F. P. NOBLE, 1308 
BERWYN AVE., EDGEWATER, CHICAGO, ILL. 



Autograph 
Letters 



Of Celebrities Bought and Sold. 

Send for price lists. 

WALTER R. BENJAMIN, 

225 Fifth Ave., New York City. 

Pub. "THE COLLECTOR," $1 a year. 



THE NEW YORK BUREAU OF REVISION 

Established in 1880. LETTERS OF CRITICISM. EXPERT 
REVISION OF MSS. Advice as to publication. Address 
DR. TITUS M. COAN, 70 FIFTH AVE., NEW YORK CITY 

Orjr) I/^C ALL OUT- OP- PRINT BOOKS SUPPLIED. 
'-'^^^-''^*^* no matter on what subject. Write us. We can get 
you any book ever published. Please state wants. Catalogue free. 
BAKER'S GREAT BOOK SHOP, 14-16 Bright St., BiHMiNeHAM, Ens. 

SEND FOR OUR 

Removal Sale Catalogue 

MANY GOOD BARGAINS LISTED IN STANDARD AUTHORS, 
REFERErCE BOOKS, AMERICANA, HISTORY, ETC. 

THE H. R. HUNTTING COMPANY 

SPRINGFIELD, MASS. 

"EARLY WESTERN TRAVELS 

Index opens opportunities for knowing the 
West and the processes of American settle- 
ment as many of us could not have known 
them before." — American Historical Review. 

THE ARTHUR H, CLARK CO., CLEVELAND, OHIO 



C. J. PRICE 

1004 Walnut St., Philadelphia, Pa. 

IMPORTER OF CHOICE AND RARE BOOKS 

FRENCH AND ENGLISH 

Invites the attention of Book-Lovers and those forming 
Fine Libraries to his collection of First and Choice Editions 
of Standard Authors, Americana, books illustrated by 
Cruikshank, Leech, and "Phiz," first editions of Dickens, 
Thackeray, Lever, Leigh Hunt, etc. Devoting his attention 
exclusively to the choicer class of books, and with experi- 
enced agents abroad, he is able to guarantee the prompt 
and efficient execution of all orders. 

Frequent catalogues of Select Importations are issued 
and sent gratis on demand. 



SEND FOR NEPT CATALOGUES 

OLD AND RARE NATURAL HISTORY, 
AMERICANA, Etc. 

FRANKLIN BOOKSHOP, 920 Walnut St., PHILADELPHIA 



WILLIAM R. JENKINS CO. a';^^^;i:frK.7^ 

851-853 SIXTH AVE., Cor. 48th St., NEW YORK 

FRENCH 

AND OTHKK 
FOEEiaN 

BOOKS 

Complete cata- 
logs on request. 



READ OITB 

ROMANS CHOISIS. 26 Titles. Paper 
60 cts., cloth 85 cts. per volume. CONTES 
CHOISIS. 24 Titles. Paper 25 cts., cloth 
40 cts. per volume. Masterpieces, pure, by weU- 
kuown authors. Read extensively by classes; 
notes in English. List on application. 



308 



THE DIAL 



[May 1, 1909. 



THE BEST NEW FICTION 

FOR SALE AT ALL BOOK STORES 



MAXIMILIAN FOSTER'S 

fascinating mystery of 
present-day New York 

Gorrie Who? 



3 3 3 3 3 3 



The Dearest, Wisest, Funniest Book of the Year ! 

THE LETTERS OF JENNIE ALLEN 

By GRACE DONWORTH 

Elustrated by F. R. Gkugeb. 1.50. 
The New York Times says : " Jennie Allen has come to 
take the place once occupied by Samantha (of Saratoga 
fame) and Mrs. Wiggs. Jennie Allen is neither a 
conscious humorist like 
the former, nor an uncon- 
scious philosopher like 
the latter. In her make- 
up is combined the best 
of both, with the result 
that she is more agree- 
able than either, and her 
great charmi is that she is 
not a bit too good to be 
true. Jennie Allen is 
the best ever." 
The best book to read 
aloud — it's refresh- 
ing—it's quotable— it's 
unique — it's all good. 

Ask your bookseller, or 
send to us, for a free set 
of sixteen souvenir post- 
cards, each with a selec- 
tion of Jennie Allen's 
humor, to mail to your 
friends. 



" Has a new Dickens been born in America ? " asks the 
San Francisco Chronicle. " That is the question that will 
be asked by every discriminating reader who chances 
upon a new novel bearing the title of FATE'S A 
FIDDLER, with EDWIN GEORGE PINKHAM as its 
author." 

"FATE'S A FIDDLER is a notable novel," says the 
Boston Transcript, " and reveals in Mr. Pinkham imagin- 
ative powers that promise a 



3 3 3 3 3 3 



JUST PUBLISHED 



Illustrated by 

George Brehm. 

$1.50. 

The Nation says : " As 
charming a piece of light 
fiction as one is likely to 
come across in many a 
day. It is a story of 
mystery, handled very 
skilfully. Those desira- 
ble elements in a tale of 
this kind — suspense and 
suspicion — are to be had 
in abounding measure. Merely as a book that refuses 
to be laid down until it is finished, it has a clear title 
to success. It possesses in addition exceptional charm 
of style." 

The Atlantic Monthly says: "The book is amazingly 
clever, with that rapid speeding action that seems to have 
come into fiction along with the motor-car. Nothing 
more entertaining could be found than ' Corrie Who ? ' " 



THE RULE OF THREE 

A Story of Pike's Peak 

By ALMA MARTIN ESTABROOK 

Illustrated by George Brehm. $1.25. 

" Multiplication is vexation. 
Division is as bad ; 
The Rule of Three perplexes me — " 

So runs the old rhyme, and so, we imagine, any 
young bachelor would feel, who like Gavin Lang- 
staff, the hero of this sprightly tale, had to 
" produce " a wife, as it were, like a magician, on 
the spur of the moment, to satisfy the demands of 
a maiden aunt, and found himself involved first 
with two and finally with three charming girls, 
each attempting to help him out of his difficulty. 
" The Rule of Three " is filled with the life 
and sparkle of the Colorado air. The play of 
its delicious humor charms your fancy and sets 
your imagination riotously at work. For, above 
all, it is a good story. 

If you live in the Rockies 
If you know the Rockies 
If you hope to see the Rockies 

You will want to read 



THE RULEJF THREE 



brilliant literary future 
for him." 
"The reader will not 
come across a better, 
more wholesome, or finely 
conceived novel than this 
one," says the Buffalo 
Courier, " for it bears the 
hallmark of literary 
genius." 

Fate's a 
Fiddler 

By 
EDWIN GEORGE PINKHAM 

With illustrations by 
Lester Ralph. 

.$1.50. 

" Do you want a good 
yarn ? Here it is," says 
Richard Burton, in the 
Bellman, of Frederick 
Orin Bartlett's exhil- 
arating romance, 

ThaWebofthe 
Golden Spider 



3l3 3 3333 131 333333 13 



" If you like Stevenson's 
' Treasure Island,' " Dr. 
Burton adds, "you will 
like this." 

"We can assure the 
reader," says the New 
York Sun, "that the story 
will keep him in a whirl 
of interest and siu^rise. 
Very stirring and absorbing reading it makes." 
" The lure of hidden treasiu-e grips men's hearts to-day 
as surely as it fascinated the adventurers of bygone cen- 
turies, and Mr. Bartlett's expedition to El Dorado is such 
an enticing affair one has half a mind to knock off prosy 
business, buy a cutlass and a brace of pistols, and enlist 
in the adventure." — Chicago Inter Ocean. 

Illustrated by Fisher and Relyea. $1.50. 



Publishers of 
the Beacon 
Biographies 



SMALL, MAYNARD & 

PUBLISHERS 



COMPANY 

BOSTON 



Publishers of 
the Beacon 
Biographies 



THE DIAL PRESS, FINE ARTS BUILDING, CHICAGO. 



ruf?i»* 




THE DIAL 

^ SEMI-MONTHLY JOURNAL OF 



Edited bt 
FRANCIS F. BROWNE 



V^'m^fo^^^' CHICAGO, MAY 16, 1909. 



10 cU. a C0J31/. / Pine Abts Building 
$2. a year. \ 203 Michigran Blvd. 



BOOKS OF PERMANENT VALUE 



Ktadp 9^ap 15 



HAND BOOK OF ALASKA 

Its Resources, Products, and Attractions 

By Major-General A. W. GREELY, U. S. A. 
With five text maps and large folded maps and twenty-four full-page illustrations. $2 



,00 net. 



CONTENTS 



GENERAL DESCRIPTION: Government and Laws — Climate — Waterways, Roads, and Railroads— The Army and 
Its Work — Agriculture and Forestry — Mining in General — Ketchikan and Wbangell Mining Districts — The 
Juneau Region — Nome and the Seward Peninsular — The Valley of the Yukon — Fairbanks and the Tanana 
Mines — Copper River Region and Cook Inlet — Fur-Seal Fisheries — Salmon Fisheries — Cod and Halibut 
Fisheries — Tourist Trips, the Inside Passage — Glacier Regions — Mountains and Volcanoes — Inhabitants, 
Whites and Natives — Education and Missions — Southwestern Alaska and Naturalists — Alaskan Game and 
Game Laws— Scientific Fields op Research — Aleutian Islands — Klondike and Canadian Yukon — Transportation, 
Post Fares, etc. 

TABLES: Dates of Historical Interest — Mean Temperature, in degrees Fahrenheit — Gold Production, by 
Districts — Pur-Seal Skins obtained from all Waters of Alaska, 1868-1908 — Glaciers— Mountains and Volcanoes — 
Salmon and Cod Fisheries, 1868-1908. 

The first comprehensive and altogether satisfactory book on that great and largely unknown country 
as it is to-day. General Greely, Chief Signal Officer, U. S. A., and former Arctic explorer, is, by liis many 
visits to Alaska, and by his knowledge of the territory, its industries and its people, thoroughly equipped 
for writing such a book, and he has produced an exhaustive, authoritative, and interesting volume. It is a 
complete picture of Alaska to-day in its geographical, commercial, social, and industrial and political 
conditions. A book invaluable to anyone who is going to the territory for any purpose and at the same 
time of the greatest serviceableness as a reference book. 



3uiEtt ^ublieien 



SIENA : 



The Story of a Mediaeval Commune 
By FERDINAND SCHEVILL 

Profeitor of History, Chicago University. 

Illustrated. $2.50 net. Postpaid $2.75. 

" A charmingly written history, enriched with a 

lively sense of the picturesque, and keen at the same 

time to recognize beauty in all its forms. It is the 

fruit of manifest study and of a critical judgment." 

— Chicago Record-Herald. 



ENGLAND AND THE 
ENGLISH 

From an American Point of View 

By PRICE COLLIER 

$1.50 net. Postpaid $1.60. 

" So sound and sane a book as this on a topic upon 
which every traveller, every man and woman who can 
hold a pen and dip it into an ink-stand, assumes com- 
petence to think and write is the rarest of the rare. It 
will entertain, it will amuse, and, best of all, it will 
instruct through its keen observation and its exceptional 
fair-mindedness." — Boston Transcript. 



CHARLES SCRLBNER'S SONS, 153-157 Fifth Avenue, New York City 



310 



THE DIAL 



[May 16, 



SOME ACROSTIC SIGNATORES OF FRANCIS BACON 

Now for the first time deciphiered and published by 
WILLIAM STONE BOOTH 

This book contains a collection of photographic facsimiles of pages of Elizabethan and Jacobean 
texts. Facing each facsimile is an expository diagram of the acrostic signature concealed in the 
type. Thus the reader can easily check and verify with precision every acrostic. The book is an 
array of facts of the plainest sort. 

The facsimiles are in the main from first editions of the Shakespeare poems and plays, to which 
it has been discovered that the name of Francis Bacon is signed, by these acrostics, in corresponding 
places. That the ciphers are not accidental can be determined by a simple mathematical calculation. 

An inference that may be drawn from the contents of this book is that Francis Bacon was 
responsible, as author or part author, for the publication of " The Art of English Poesie " and of 
the works which were published under the name of William Shakespeare ; that he acquired and 
rewrote old plays; that he was satirized as a "Poet-ape" and as " Chevr'll the Lawyer" by Ben 
Jonson ; that he was satirized as " Labeo " by Joseph Hall; that in two instances he used the 
name of Marlow, and in a few cases that of Spenser. 

Illustrated with 207 facsimiles and acrostic figures. Large 410. $6.00 net. Postpaid, $6.40. 
(Also 150 copies of the first edition bound, uncut, in boards with paper label. $7.50 net. Postpaid, $7.95.) 

For sale to-day at all Bookstores or by the Publishers 

HOUGHTON MIFFLIN COMPANY 



4 Park Street, Boston 



85 Fifth Avenue, New Yoric 







A BOOK FOR EVERY STUDENT 


OF INTEREST 
to LIBRARIANS 


THE STATESMANSHIP OF 

ANDREW JACKSON 

As Told in His Writings and Speeches 

Edited by Francis Newton Thorpe, Ph.D., LL.D. 

THE ONLY COLLECTION ever made of the writings of 
* Andrew Jackson. It contains every important letter 
and document, and exhibits his principles of Statecraft 
in his own words. With Introduction, Notes. Chron- 
ology, Bibliography, Index. 

638 pp., 8vo, cloth, gilt top. Price, $2.50. 


T T /"E are now handling a larger per- 
* ' centage of orders from Public 
Libraries, School and College 
Libraries, than any other dealer in 
the entire country. This is because 
our book stock, covering all classes 
and grades of books, is more com- 
plete than that of any other book- 
seller in the United States, enabling 
us to make full and prompt ship- 
ments. Also, because we have a well 
equipped department looking after 
this special branch of the business. 


A BOOK FOR EVERY OIRL 


The GARDEN of GIRLS 

By Marian A. Hilton 

A FRESH, entertaining tale of two high-bred girls 

^ making their way in New York, and having a good 

deal of fun along with their hard work — a lot of humor. 

a touch of pathos, and just enough innocent romance to 

interest a girl. 

Just the book for an Easter Gift. Nothing: 

better for a Graduation or Birthday Present. 

Fully illustrated, 360 pp., IZnw, cloth. $1.50. 


Of your Bookseller or by Mall, Postpaid 

THE TANDY-THOMAS COMPANY 

31-33 East 27th Street, New York 


A. C. McCLURG & CO. 

UBRARY DEPARTMENT CHICAGO 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



311 



FROM DUFFIELD & COMPANY'S SPRING LIST 

IMPORTANT NEW BOOKS 
H. C. Chatfield-Taylor " FAME'S PATHWAY" 

"A story exquisitely and poetically told ; and the book follows so closely 
the facts of Moliere's career as to be practically a biography of his early 
dramatic experiences set in the vivid form of fiction. As a picture of the 
stage of Moliere's period the novel is a masterly one." — Baltimore Sun. 
Pictures by " Job." $1.50. 




H. Handel Richardson 



MAURICE GUEST 



»> 




" Season by season, week by week, we live through Maurice Guest's two 

years in Leipzig, till we know, almost as well as he does, its romantically 

homely streets, its comfortably sylvan parks, its river gay with skaters, its chattering crowds 

of music students of all nationalities. ..." — The Nation, New York. $1.60. 



"HOUSES OF GLASS" 

A new book in paper covers, Euro- 



Helen Mackay 

stories and Sketches of Paris, illustrated by E. F. Folsom. 
pean fashion. 

" They are all better than the average of De Maupassant, and some of them press his best very 
*' close. They smack of genius." — Walter Littlbfibld in Chicago Record- Her aid. 

$1.00 net: by mail, $1.06. 

Letters of Mrs. James G. Blaine " Edited by Harriet S. Blaine Beale. 

" One of the most interesting collections of American letters that have appeared in many years." — Chicago Tribune. 

2 vols., cloth, grilt top, boxed. $4.00 net ; by post. $4,16. 



Fourth Edition 

" Tono-Bungay " in London is being received with an almost unanimous chorus of praise, 
writes of it in the Daily Telegraph in the following ecstatic terms : ' We think that 



Fourth Edition 
Mr. W. L. Courtney 



" TONO-BUNGAY " 



will prove to be Mr. H. G. Wells's " David Copperfield." . . . One of the most significant novels of modern times, 
one of the sincerest and most unflinching analyses of the dangers and perils of our contemporary life that any writer 
has had the courage to submit to his own generation. Mr. Wells has certainly done nothing to approach this book, 
both for courage and conviction.' — Boston Evening Transcript. $1.60 postpaid. 



THE MEDIEVAL LIBRARY 
The Book of the Divine Consolation of St. Angela Da Foligno " 

Translated from the Italian by Mary G. Steegmann, with an Introduction; illustrated reproductions of the wood- 
cuts of the original edition, Genoa, 1536. 

' Elarly English Romances of Friendship " 

Edited, in modern English, with Introduction and Notes, by Edith Rickert. Illustrated by photogravures after 
illuminations in contemporary MSS. Brown plgrskln, antique clasps. $2.00 net ; by post, $2.08. 



William Eleroy Curti. "ONE IRISH SUMMER" 

Sketches and descriptions of Ireland and the Irish ; an excellent account of Ireland as it is to-day. Illustrated 
from 64 photographs. $8.60 net; postagre 10 cents. 

The Lamb Shakespeare for the Young " A NIGHT WITH SHAKESPEARE " 

A charming programme for school entertainments and teachers. 

Recent additions to The Lamb Shakespeare (Charles and Mary Lamb's prose, with the famous passages set in) 

are "MACBETH" and "ROMEO AND JULIET." Leather, $1.00; cloth, 80 cents. 

Hutchin. Hapgood "AN ANARCHIST WOMAN" 

A remarkable sociological study, made from life. $1.26 net; postag-e 10 cents. 

Elinor Glyn's new book 

Published May 15. 
Cloth. 12mo. $1.60. 

AT ALL BOOKSELLERS OR FROM THE PUBLISHERS 



ELIZABETH VISITS AMERICA 




DUFFELD 

3eWEST375SI 




COMBW 

NEW YORK 



312 



THE DIAL 



[May 16, 1909. 



Just Ready: the 
New Novel by 



F. Marion Crawford 

The White Sister 



It is a mingled pleasure and pain to find that in this his last work the " prince of story tellers " was 
still able to hold his readers in a world whose people have been real folk to us for nearly a quarter of a 
century. We are again in Rome: Ippolito Saracinesca, whom we knew in Corleone, is now " Monsig- 
nor," a very wise and kindly prelate. The interest of the story is tense, as it moves through a skillful 
shifting of the contrast between hot primitive southern passions and the cool, still gardens of a cloister, 
between army officers of " the new politics " and the old nobility " more papist than the Pope." 

By the author of " Saracinesca," " Sant' Ilario," " Paul Patoff," etc. Cloth, $1,50. 



OTHER MACMILLAN FICTION 

Each, decorated cloth, $1.50. 

Ellen Glasgow's new novel 

The Romance of a Plain Man 

Miss Glasgow's special field has hitherto been Rich- 
mond just after the war, exhausted but not beaten ; 
in her new novel we see as no one else has pictured 
them certain possibilities of the New South. 
By the author of" The Deliverance,^' etc. 

Eden PhillpottS S new novel 

The Three Brothers 

" has in it the flavor of life, a charm hard to over- 
come. Few will resist its delightful humor and never- 
failing human interesi." — Evening Post (Chicago). 
By the author of " The Secret Woman," etc. 

Frank Danby's new novel Sebastian 

The London Graphic describes the book as " an 
almost perfect character study, so human, so weak, 
and yet so strong is the boy." 

By the author of " The Heart of a Child." 

RinaRamsa/s The Straw 

The story of the year for those who love the saddle, 
the thrill of following at a gallop the running fox, and 
the jolly chaff of a gay " hunting set." 



Mr. Percy MacKaye's new book 

The Playhouse and the Play 

A volume of forcible addresses pointing out that, 
whether we realize it or not, the theatre is a tre- 
mendous national educational influence. In the 
course of his demonstration that this important 
factor in civic life is managed on principles obviously 
absurd when applied to any equally educational insti- 
tution, Mr. MacKaye makes a strong argument for 
an endowed civic theatre. 

Cloth, 12mo, decorated, $1.25; by mail, $1.35. 

Francis B. Gummere's 

The Oldest English Epic 

Necessary to the student of the early English litera- 
ture ; interesting to any reader for the simple direct 
vividness of the old tales sung to the hall-thanes in a 
swinging metre that is half chant, half lilt, wholly 
attractive. Cloth, 12mo, $1.10 net. 



A New Volume in the Series of hand- 
books for the United Study of Missions 



JUST BEADY 

Dr. Edward T. Devine's new book 
Misery and its Causes 

An analysis of social life which considers preventive 
measures as well as relief, community needs and 
standards as well as the individual's welfare. 

Cloth, l2mo, $1.50 net; by mail, $1.62. 

By Theodore D. Jervey, viee-President of 

the South Carolina Historical Society. 

Robert Y. Hayne and his Times 

An entirely new view of South Carolina history at its 
most interesting epoch before the Civil War ; it is 
largely based on local material and contains infor- 
mation heretofore inaccessible to historical students. 
Illustrated, cloth, 8vo. Just ready. 

By Edmond S. Meany, Prof essor of History 
in the University of Washington. 

History of the State of Washington 

The story in large part of the great Northwest, a 
fascinating section of American history, in a form so 
comprehensive and admirably arranged that it wUl 
be for long the standard on this subject. 

Illustrated, cloth, 8vo. Just Ready. 

The Faith and Works of 
Christian Science 

Those who read in this author's Confessio Medici 
the witty thrust at Christian Science may recall his 
remark about the book he would like to write — a 
small part of what physicians and surgeons know of 
the so-called science and its effects. 

Cloth, 12mo, $1.25 net; by mail, $1.35. 

By Irving E. Miller, Prof essor of Psychology 
and Pedagogy in the State Normal School, Mil- 
waukee, Wis. 

The Psychology of Thinking 

Strongly pedagogical in bias, original and thorough 
in its development of the dynamic aspect of mental 
processes. Cloth, l2mo, $1.25 net. 

John Spargo's Socialism 

A new edition, with an added chapter embodying 
the author's personal opinions as to " Means of 
Realization." Cloth, 12mo, $1.60 net; by mail, $1.62. 



Cloth, 50 cts.; by mail, 57 cts. 
Paper, 30 cts.; by mail, 35 cts. 



The Gospel in Latin Lands By F. E. and H. A. Clark 

Outline Studies of Protestant Missions in the Latin Countries of Europe and America. 



PUBLISHED 
BY 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 



64-66 Fifth Ave. 
NEW YORK 



THE DIAL 

a Semt*iffl.ontfjIg Jonrnal af l^iterarg Criticism, Wscusmn, antJ lEnfartnattan. 



THE DIAL (founded in 1880) is published on the 1st and 16th oj 
each month. Terms of Subsceiption, 82. a year in advance, postage 
prepaid in the United States, and Mexico; Foreign and Canadian 
postage 50 cents per year extra. Remittances should be by check, or 
by express or postal order, payable to THE DIAL COMPANY. 
Unless otherwise ordered, subscriptions will begin with the current 
number. When no direct request to discontinue at expiration of sub- 
scription is received, it is assumed that a continuance of the subscription 
is desired. Adveetisino Rates furnished on application. All com- 
munications should be addressed to 

THE DIAL, Fine Arts Building, Chicago. 

Entered as Second-Class Matter October 8, 1892, at the Post Office 
at Chicago, Illinois, under Act of March 3, 1879. 



No. 550. 



MAY 16, 1909. 



Vol. XLVI. 



Contents. 

PAOB 

THE PEACE CONGRESS 313 

THE WICKEDEST BOOK IN THE WORLD. 

Lawrence C. Wroth 315 

CASUAL COMMENT 318 

The stylist in journalism. — Needed improvements 
in typography. — Carlyle's view of literature as a 
profession, — Our liberal library rules. — The effect 
of age on the appetite for reading. — A curious 
instance of foresight. — Dr. Crothers's " hundred 
worst books." — -A Bunyan memorial in West- 
minster Abbey. — Crawford's place in literature. — 
A variously gifted librarian. — The suicide of John 
Davidson. — The perennial charm of the mysteri- 
ous. — The public library's three-tenths of a mill. — 
Mr. Meredith's estimate of Swinburne. — Auction 
sales of old and rare books. 

COMMUNICATIONS 321 

From the Library Copyright League. Bernard 

C. Steiner and W. P. Cutter. 
" The Blue Bird " at Moscow. Margaret Vance. 

A LIFE OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH. Percy F. 

Bicknell 322 

AMERICA AND THE FAR EASTERN QUESTION. 

Payson J. Treat 324 

THE CENTURY OF THE CHILD. Caroline L. Hunt 325 

SOME VERY MODERN TYPES. Richard Burton 327 

A CENTURY OF COLONLA.L HISTORY. St. George 

Leakin Siousaat 327 

BRIEFS ON NEW BOOKS 329 

Jack afloat and ashore. — Fundamentals of friend- 
ship. — An important naval history. — Memoirs of 
a millionaire. — The literature of the South. — 
The witch and her magic. — A possible author of 
the " Junius " letters. — A new-old cure for civic 
misgovernment. — Anecdotes of London manners 
and morals. — A pioneer's autobiography. 

BRIEFER MENTION 332 

NOTES 332 

LIST OF NEW BOOKS 334 



THU PEA CE C ONGEESS. 

The second National Peace Congress was held 
in Chicago during the early days of the present 
month. Its sessions occupied three full days, 
and were so largely attended that it was found 
necessary to hold two or three meetings in dif- 
ferent halls at the same time, in order to accom- 
modate the throngs of people who, whether from 
earnest interest or from mere curiosity, came 
from near and far to listen to the gospel of good 
will toward men. Numerous organizations all 
over the country were represented by official 
delegates, and many speakers of great distinc- 
tion, including diplomatic officials of several for- 
eign nations, contributed to the programmes. 
Even the local newspapers found the Congress 
worthy of serious attention, and gave it the 
hospitality of front pages and headlines, along 
with reports of our ex-President's exploits in 
the African jungle. The Congress ended with 
a huge banquet, attended by upwards of a 
thousand guests, and was altogether a highly 
successful affair. 

When one looks back upon an occasion like 
this, and tries to form some sort of estimate of 
its power for good, it is only too easy to come 
to a discouraging conclusion. To the news- 
papers, it is something less than a nine days' 
wonder, and when it is over, leaves hardly an 
echo to remind us that it has been. To the 
public at large, it is the focus of a temporary 
interest, soon displaced by the jostling of other 
interests. And this incurable vagrancy of atten- 
tion on the part of the world is apt to react upon 
the most devoted worker for peace, bringing him 
perilously close to despondency, and making 
him wonder if, after all, his effort has been 
worth the while. It takes a stout heart to 
remain unaffected by the apathy into which 
most men fall back after their brief excitement 
is over, to look with hopeful gaze toward the 
intrenchments behind which foUy and wrong 
sit in what seems to be the old unimpaired 
seicurity. Menaced by this mood of despair, 
we need the tonic medicine of the poets, the 
best friends of man, and the most helpful. We 
need the fire of Arnold's exhortation : 
"Charge once more, then, and be dumb! 

Let the victors, when they come. 

When the forts of folly fall. 

Find thy body by the wall !" 



314 



THE DIAL 



[May 16, 



We need the inspiration of Sill, whose reformer 

" Fights alone, and from the cloudy ramparts 
A thousand evil faces gibe and jeer him. 
Let him lie down and die: what is the right, 
And where is justice, in a world like this? 
But by and by, earth shakes herself, impatient; 
And down, in one great roar of ruin, crash 
Watchtower and citadel and battlements. 
When the red dust has cleared, the lonely soldier 
Stands with strange thoughts beneath the friendly stars." 

We need the triumphant vision of Swinburne, 
voiced by his pilgrims of invincible faith : 
■Nay, though our life were blind, our death were 

fruitless. 
Not therefore were the whole world's high hope 
rootless ; 
But man to man, nation would turn to nation. 
And the old life live, and the old great word be 
great." 

We must all recognize the fact that in any 
matter that involves the regeneration of the 
human spirit progress must always be slow. The 
secular iniquity of warfare will not yield to the 
first assault, or the hundredth ; all we may hope 
to do at any given time is to sap by ever so little 
its foundations. Here, again, the poet has a 
word of cheer for us. 

" For while the tired waves, vainly breaking. 
Seem here no painful inch to gain. 
Far back, through creeks and inlets making. 
Comes silent, flooding in, the main." 

The advocate of peace finds himself everywhere 
confronted by two types of the cynic, the type 
that refuses to look toward the future, asserting 
our present miserable estate to be irremediable, 
and the type that is too impatient to think small 
steps worth taking at aU. It is difficult to say 
which of the two resists the onward movement 
with the greater inertia. The despair of the 
idealist is always the man who will cheerfully 
admit the existence of an evil, agree that the 
world would be much better for its removal, 
and refuse to shape his actions in the slightest 
degree toward that desirable end. He is, if 
anything, worse than the man who, whether 
plain voter or high-placed statesman, is always 
ready to pay voluble lip-service to the ideal of 
peace, but whose every political act favors in- 
creased taxation for war purposes, and is exerted 
for the encouragement of the military spirit. 
The hypocrisy or the moral cowardice of this 
man soon becomes fairly evident to his fellows, 
and his protests come to be taken at their true 
value. 

The notion that bristling armaments con- 
stitute the most effective means of preserving 
the world's peace is probably the most mischiev- 
ous notion at present perverting the minds of 



men. It deliberately ignores the fact that in 
these armaments is the greatest possible incen- 
tive to warfare, and that history is full of 
conflicts brought about by the self-conscious 
strength and arrogant pride of armed powers, 
seeking to enforce their unreasonable dictates 
upon weaker members of the family of nations. 
It is also characterized by a reckless disregard 
of the economic aspect of militarism. The cost 
of a possible attack is held before the imagination 
of the populace ; the cost of safeguarding the 
nation against such an attack is never brought 
home to the general consciousness. If we were 
calmly to reckon up the two costs, and set them 
side by side for comparison, we should be far 
less eager to waste our substance upon the instru- 
ments of destruction. The battlefield takes its 
toll of wealth and human life in a spectacular 
way, but the heavy taxation which builds navies 
and supports armies and pays pensions is quietly 
taking its toU in the same kind year after year, 
steadily and remorselessly. In the case of our 
own country, the policy pursued during the past 
ten years has been a policy of wanton waste, for 
we cannot urge the plea of self-defence which to 
some extent justifies the European powers in 
keeping up the burden of their armaments. No 
power upon earth is likely to make war upon 
the ninety million people of the United States, 
and should that wellnigh inconceivable event 
become a reality, the amount of damage inflicted 
upon us could hardly equal the damage we are 
inflicting upon ourselves in any ten-year period 
of our present course. We should, moreover, 
as aU the world knows, in the end exact retri- 
bution to the last dollar for the injury done us 
by any act of foreign aggression. This nation 
can best aid in furthering the world's peace by 
becoming once more the world's example of a 
nation resting upon moral ideas, by retracing 
the downward path of the last decade, by ceasing 
to share in the senseless rivalry for power that 
is slowly but surely bankrupting the nations of 
the older world. 

Turning for a final word to the peace prob- 
lem in its world-wide aspect, we may say with 
confidence that the signs have been steadily 
brightening for years. 
" Forward then, but still remember how the course of 

time will swerve. 
Crook and turn upon itself in many a backward 

streaming curve." 

Tennyson's admonition should keep us from 
being unduly depressed by temporary happen- 
ings that seem to put back the hand upon the 
dial. The Hague conferences are solid facts 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



315 



that outweigh in significance any recent exhibi- 
tions of the military spirit. The principle of 
arbitration is becoming more generally accepted 
all the time, and the list of its triumphs of 
recent years — of possible wars which it has 
averted — is, if read intelligently, extremely 
impressive. There is a new hope in the minds 
of those who love mankind, and it is fed from 
many springs. The questions of peace, the 
reduction of armaments, arbitration treaties, a 
humaner code of international law, the federa- 
tion of nations, and international parliaments 
and tribunals, are no longer debated with 
scholastic nicety as mere intellectual exercises ; 
they are escaping from the academic into the 
practical sphere, and are being taken seriously 
by men of affairs. Something must result from 
all this ferment of enlightening discussion, not 
all that we hope, for many weary generations 
perhaps, but enough to make us feel that our 
efforts are anything but futile, to make us fore- 
see for our descendants a fairer and saner world 
in which to work out their destinies. 



THE 



WICKEDEST BOOK IN THE 
WORLD. 



Not long ago I had occasion to visit an ecclesias- 
tical library in one of our older American cities. 
To one whose work has been for years under the 
somewhat deadening influence of the routine of a 
perfectly-appointed conventionalized modern public 
library, this day spent in an atmosphere stuffy with 
tradition and with the things that come with tradi- 
tion was as a sip of forbidden wine. 

My business with the keeper early finished, he 
gave me the freedom of his shelves, leading me from 
one room to another, each in turn a fresh delight to 
my antiquity-starved soul. It was a very patriarch 
of a library, with old-fashioned shelving from floor 
to ceiling, laden to the breaking point with the trea- 
sures of the ages, and these for the most part in 
their original editions. Here were shelf upon shelf 
of folios dressed in vellum, pigskin, and calf ; of 
graceful aristocratic quartos in like subdued splendor, 
and of octavos without number in every sort of bind- 
ing material known to the craft. 

At last we passed through a dark passage into a 
room of the width and length of a railroad passenger 
coach and as high as six of them piled one upon 
another. From floor to ceiling the side walls were 
made beautiful by a king's ransom in books — books 
of every shape, size, and color, and on every possible 
subject. At either end the light filtered sleepily 
through Gothic windows of colored glass, obstructed 
in its passage by the thick ivy which covered the 
buUding, not sparing even the windows. The keeper 
went with me to one end of the room, and there left 



me. He turned and became one with the shadows 
of the middle distance, and so went from my sight 
and memory. 

I moved slowly down one side of the room, recog- 
nizing old friends here and there, smiling at a 
memory of this one, taking down another, or reading 
the title-page or a line or two of a third. An 
irregular line of progress brought me in time to a 
spot which had been my goal from the moment of 
my entering the room. This was a corner where 
the ten or twelve lower shelves held what I knew to 
be a rarely interesting collection of works on a special 
subject. I knew this ; but how, it is not clear even 
to me, except I know that to those who give their 
lives to working and playing with books there is 
vouchsafed in return a subtle power of reading them 
from the outside. I knew this was an unusual 
collection. It looked it, — that is all. 

Here were Strozzio Cigogna, Martin Del Rio, 
Ulric Molitor, Johann Osiander, William Perkins, 
Flood, Pomponazzi, Salverte, Wier, Bodin, and 
threescore more, writing on the nature, methods, and 
history of that great department of human folly 
known broadly by the terms " Magic, Sorcery, and 
Witchcraft." I scanned a few of the titles with the 
feeling of wonder and the sense of the mysterious 
which anything connected with these exploded faiths 
and theories of our forefathers always engenders. 
I took from its shelf a particularly fine copy of 
Martin Del Rio's Disquisitionum magicarum, lihri 
sex. His engraved title-page held me for a moment ; 
but muttering, "lesser men, lesser men," I searched 
the range before me for the master, the father of 
them all, the Inquisitor Sprenger, the cursed of 
many, the arch-fiend. 

There he was, right at my hand, bound in dark- 
green half-morocco and boards of the same modest 
and unobtrusive shade, in appearance an indeter- 
minate sort of book. On its back was stamped in 
severe roman capitals the simple legend Malleus 
maleficarum ("Hammer of witches"). Its former 
owner had bound it in this inconspicuous fashion, it 
may be, that its individuality might be lost in the 
high-piled shelves of his great library — a fitting 
punishment for its iniquities, which are as scarlet. 
Else would he have covered it with leather stained 
blood-red, and tooled around the edges and on the 
back a design of bodies writhing distortedly in pain ; 
for this is a book of blood and human suffering, of 
burnings and drownings, of slow death by torture, 
and of sudden awful death. 

Jacob Sprenger ! The name means nothing to 
you and me to-day, but not Herod and not Nero, 
villianously intentioned though they were, have on 
their heads or hands more than one small part of 
the blood and pain that must one day be answered 
for by this black-browed fanatical tool of popes, this 
Satan's whipper-in, who scourged the world in his 
lifetime and dying left his heritage, this " maul for 
the sorcerers " to carry death and heart-breakings 
into parts far beyond his mortal reach. During his 
life he swept restlessly through Germany and the 



316 



THE DIAL 



[May 16, 



Tyrol, burning and torturing, sending two or three 
hundred persons to the stake with every year of his 
mission. The little town of Ravenspurg alone paid 
toll to the persecution at the rate of ten slaughtered 
innocents a year for five successive years. In one 
district the convictions were so many that the people 
rose in rebellion, reasoning perhaps that the death 
of the sword was a cleaner and a sweeter one than 
that of roasting in a wood fire. What darkening of 
counsel had this man hearkened to ? 

He was very much of a modern in some ways, was 
this Sprenger. To-day if king or president commis- 
sion a man to an unusual field of labor, he makes 
notes assiduously with the view of publication when 
his work is done. Pope Innocent VIII. had laid 
upon Sprenger the duty of exterminating the heresy 
of witchcraft, giving him extraordinary powers that 
the work might be done quickly and thoroughly. 
After many years of unceasing devotion to the cause, 
Sprenger brought out his book. He made a more 
profound study of the whole subject of the super- 
natural than anyone had been able to do before him, 
and the result of his reading and of his observation 
he compiled into this treatise, the " Hammer of 
Witches." 

As I looked upon the copy before me, I seemed 
to enter for a moment a gloomy Inquisitorial cham- 
ber, where sat the black-gowned tribunal. I went 
out from there in the wake of a fainting wretch who 
would not confess to having kept in his possession a 
Baptized Toad. He was taken into another room 
and things were done to him which made my blood 
chill in its course. When he was led back, he con- 
fessed himself guilty of everything whereof he was 
accused, and that night he died of his hurts. 

I returned with a shudder to the book in my hand. 
It was as though I were looking in reality upon the 
hideous machine by which in my vision I had seen 
a human being twisted and torn to his death ; for 
this copy of the " Malleus " was one of a fifteenth- 
century edition, published during the life of Sprenger. 
It may be that he once held this very copy in his 
hand, and presented it to some younger Inquisitor 
in order that the flaming torch of ignorance and 
fanaticism might go down undimmed from one gen- 
eration to another. This harmless looking compound 
of paper and printer's ink has doubtless been the 
death of many a victim of the persecution which sent 
its tens of thousands of persons to the stake, sacri- 
fices to the blood-lust, prey of the forces of selfish 
fear and superstition. Reading here, some judge, 
ecclesiastical or civil (for both were in it), has been 
convinced for once and all time of the justice of the 
death penalty for witches. Some devil's advocate, 
quoting hence, has sent a maiden, torn from her 
lover's arms, to the arms of the executioner and the 
kisses of the flames. 

It has a sinister look, this copy of the " Malleus." 
Its narrow columns of unusually crabbed gothic 
letters, its soiled pages, its gnawed and blackened 
edges, make of it an evil-looking volume, — such a 
one as that persistent, hot-eyed Sprenger would fitly 



be the parent of. In appearance it seems to tell of 
the service it has done ; the dark splotches upon its 
pages might almost be the blood-stains of its victims. 
Those marginal notes in mediaeval Latin doubtless 
spell the condemnation of many an honest burgher's 
wife or daughter. A bundle of paper and printer's 
ink it is now, and innocuous ; but what a compact 
mass of villainy does it represent, this book, the 
" wickedest book in the world " ! One might read 
here on almost any page that which would bring a 
smile to his face unless he remember the piteous 
throng of those whose bodies twisted and strained 
at their bonds, shrieking and writhing as the red 
flames touched their flesh. Then he is inclined to 
regard more gravely the vast credulity and the terri- 
ble sincerity of the old persecutor, upheld as it was 
by the banal logic of the age in which he lived. 

Sprenger divides his book into three sections — 
treating of what witches are, how to combat them, 
and how to obtain their sure conviction in the courts 
of law ; the last, if we may believe him, a very diffi- 
cult process because of their demonic relationship. 
If there were not in us to-day an attitude of mind 
toward these things which assures us that they are 
Folly's very self, no one reading here could withstand 
the combined weight of the aggregation of authori- 
ties and of the mass of authenticated instances of 
demonic influence which are piled one upon another. 
And it is equally certain that but for the horrible 
results of the author's simplicity, no one could read 
without amusement some of the passages wherein 
he discusses in aU good faith such mooted points as 
the possibility of demons exercising their hellish 
functions among men in the form of animals ; 
whether they are capable of procreation ; and why 
women are found practising demonic arts more 
generally than men. In the second book the author 
is concerned with methods of withstanding the crafts 
and assaults of the Adversary. One refrains from 
laughing here, too, for through it all runs a childlike 
faith in God and His Son ; and no matter how 
absurd the setting, the picture of Faith is never 
funny, although, as in this case, it may be pitiable. 
He tells of the cooperation one may look for from 
the angels in this age-long battle, of the power of 
exorcism inherent in Holy Church, and of the every- 
day precautions one may take against the loss of 
homes, human life, and cattle. The third book gives 
the forms of action in the civil and ecclesiastical 
courts against a person accused of demoniacal 
relationship. It tells how to follow the evil spirit 
through his transmutations, how to catch him nap- 
ping, how to entrap him into admissions, of the 
examination of witnesses, of the amount and kind 
of torture to be applied. The case was to be begun 
invariably by the notary with the words, " In the 
name of the Lord — Amen." 

The radical defect in the character of our fathers 
of the " wonderful fifteenth " century seems to have 
been the absence of a sense of humor in viewing 
their own actions and experiences. It is conceivable 
that of a winter's midnight they should believe them- 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



317 



selves visited by a succubus, or carried off astride a 
broomstick to make merry at a Witches' Sabbath, — 
for their houses were gloomy and cold, and their 
beds hard and not overclean ; but the wonder to us 
is that in the clear light of the morrow they should 
insist upon the reality of their night's experiences. 
Few men are so bold at midnight, even now, as to 
express a positive disbelief in the supernatural ; but 
at nine in the morning they will laugh at the idea, 
and at themselves for their momentary weakness. 

Nobody laughed at Sprenger, though, when he 
published his " Malleus." He had the Pope's appro- 
bation, and a letter from the faculty of the University 
of Cologne prefixed to the text, the latter instrument 
expressing unqualified assent to the matter and pur- 
pose of the book. It ran into several editions during 
his lifetime. It found its way into the libraries of 
the various chapters of the Holy Office throughout 
Europe. It became the Inquisitor's vade meeum, 
his handbook of instructions for daily use ; for dur- 
ing the next hundred years the heaviest work of the 
Inquisition was the extirpation of the witchcraft 
heresy, and this book pretended to show how that 
could be brought about. Sprenger's book was un- 
doubtedly a success. It probably held its place as 
a " best seller " for several years after its publica- 
tion, — and no wonder, for it was racy entertainment 
indeed compared to the long sermons and the heavy 
philosophical disquisitions with which the presses of 
that day were burdened. 

I turned again to the letter of the faculty of the 
University of Cologne. Its first words were " In 
the name of our Lord, Jesus Christ, Amen," phrases 
which flowed readily from the pens of the church- 
men of that day, and their presence here could 
be but the conventional use as a form of opening 
in letters and documents. But as I thought more 
about it, their position as almost the first words in 
the book became significant. For what, if not for 
Christ's sake, was this witchcraft persecution waged ? 
To Sprenger, all the varied forms of the delusion 
with which he had come in contact were evidences 
of the activity of Satan and his legions embattled 
against Christ and the Church. It was a pious duty 
to fight it, — with the word of God first, and if not 
successful with that weapon, then with fire and 
sword. 

We are told by Lecky, Lea, and the others who 
have studied this man's life, that his was not a cruel 
disposition. If his lines had fallen outside the 
Church, we should likely never have heard of him. 
Like his father and his father's father he would 
have passed into oblivion, a kind husband, a kind 
parent, a worthy burgher of some German town. 
Perhaps he would even have become an alderman 
and gfrown fat. As it is, he has lived to be cursed — 
justly, doubtless, — but only for doing his duty, or 
what according to his lights seemed his duty. He 
was deep in ignorance, criminal ignorance ; but his 
education had not been of the kind that enlightens 
ignorance. How had they, his masters, befuddled 
his straight-thinking boy's mind by their scholastic 



philosophy, with all its pitiful illogic, its syllogfisms 
and enthymemes, its fallacies and idols, its dialectic 
disputations, its quiddities and quoddities, its endless 
controversies about the nature of things which matter 
nothing — vanity, vanity ! It is no great wonder that 
he and his age lost the clear vision ; that they went 
mad on the subject of demons, vampires, witches, 
and diviners. His parents had doubtless accepted 
these things as an article of faith. It may be that 
his mother's cousin had been burned for attending 
a " Sabbath," or for sundry other occasions of inter- 
course with Satan, confessing her guilt after the 
first half hour of the strappado, willing to acknow- 
ledge herself Antichrist for surcease from that tear- 
ing of flesh and wrenching of joint. It would have 
been strange had he not held the beliefs of his age ; 
Erasmus, Martin Luther, Sir Thomas Browne, John 
Wesley, Sir William Blackstone, — these are some 
of the men who, with better opportunities than his, 
have believed in witches. We to-day have broken 
ourselves of the habit of credulity ; that is the 
difference. 

With my point of view changed somewhat by the 
byway into which my thoughts had wandered, I 
replaced Sprenger's " maul " upon its shelf. I had 
taken it down in a sort of rage, calling its author 
arch-fiend ; but now something of the large charity 
of that library had entered me. It held within its 
walls all the conflicting opinions of the world, offer- 
ing to no one of them more space than to another, 
or more protection against the enemies of books. It 
enclosed them all within its warm dim bosom, and 
they and it were at peace. 

" Yonder are brave books," I thought, passing to 
another range. I removed from an upper shelf, and 
bore to the window for better light, a copy of the 
'' Angelic Doctor " Thomas Aquinas, Super quarto 
sententiarum, printed, its colophon said, " by Nich- 
olas Jenson in Venice in 1481. Praise be to God." 
After four hundred and odd years the paper was as 
white as on the day of its manufacture, the ink as black 
as in its first moment of impression, and the binding 
of stamped pigskin stretched over oaken boards was 
unblemished by scratch or wormhole. The types 
were beautiful and individual. Relieving the mo- 
notony of black against white were blue and red 
initial letters and paragraph indications. Reluc- 
tantly, — for time called, — I was about to put it 
away, when a single shaft from the setting sun stole 
through the stained-glass window and fell upon the 
exposed bosoms of the book. The mellow light 
softened and glorified the contrasted colors. I caught 
my breath in a gasp almost of pain. It was a thing 
of perfect beauty, the perfection of art. I closed 
the book, half ashamed ; I felt as one who has seen 
Diana naked. 

Unconsciously my thoughts went back to Sprenger, 
as I realized that the age which had produced this 
beautiful book had also burned some hundreds of 
thousands of human beings. Sympathy for and appre- 
ciation of the fifteenth century, and its forerunners, 
which men sometimes call the Dark Age, were 



318 



THE DIAL 



[May 16, 



upon me ; sympathy for the generous error and the 
misdirected effort that pervaded it — appreciation 
of the wonderful accomplishment of which its annals 
tell. This age burnt human beings by the thousand, 
but it sent its hosts to die for the Sepulchre ; it gave 
birth to Caesar Borgia and that dog-brotherhood, but 
the mild Saint h, Kempis is on more men's tongues 
to-day, and Machiavelli is overbalanced by Savon- 
arola, Dante, and Petrarch. It drew the teeth of 
Jews to force them to discover their gold, but it 
nourished Wiclif, Chaucer, and the author of " Piers 
the Plowman " ; against its pseudo-scientists, its 
alchemists, its astrologers, its Mandevilles, it offers 
Galileo, Copernicus, and that bold spirit Christopher 
Columbus. If it was the most short-sighted era in 
the history of the nations, it was also the most re- 
splendent with genius, the most prolific in the inven- 
tion and gi'owth of new arts and sciences. It 
produced such a book as the Malleus maleficarum ; 
but it perfected the printing-press, the mechanism 
that was to make its teachings folly and the witch a 
bogey for chUdren. Lawrence C. Wroth. 



CASUAL COMMENT. 



The stylist in journalism is likely to encounter 
certain embarrassments and difl&culties in the pursuit 
of his calling. As the editor of " The Spectator " 
remarks in a current magazine article ("Are Jour- 
nalism and Literature Incompatible ? " in " The 
Fortnightly Review" for April), "the trade of 
journalism " and " the art of letters " are not per- 
haps at irreconcilable odds, but their happy marriage 
is a difficult matter. Plausible reasons readily pre- 
sent themselves which seem to prove that this mutual 
hostility is not altogether unfortunate, while on the 
other hand cogent arguments are not wanting to show 
that a higher literary tone in daily journalism would 
greatly benefit all concerned. Neither purple patches 
of fine writing nor labored attempts at bald sim- 
plicity are desirable, but rather that perfection of 
lucid literary style which leaves the reader all but 
unconscious that there is any style at all in what he 
is reading. As an example of the extreme opposite 
of this, we are tempted to quote, from a large city 
daily before us, some extracts from a description of 
a recent fashionable wedding. The writer almost 
attains the height of the ridiculous in some of his 
florid flourishes. " The science of perception and of 
the perfection of beauty," he begins, " cannot trace 
its lineage much higher than from the Brown recep- 
tion. We venture the prediction that this reception 
will hereafter be accepted as on a footing of equality 
with the elder branches that have made Baltimore 
beauty so world-famed." And a little further on : 

" We know not what indefinable charm ! It is 

as if Hyperion, the sun god, the incarnation of light 
and beauty, had reflected his sweetest rays over 
the notable gathering of Mr. and Mrs. Alexander 
Brown." And once more : " There was nothing 



that marred, but everything that heightened, the 
perfect presentment of Mrs. Brown at her daughter's 
wedding. As she stood upon the dais it seemed to 
the writer the imperial votress should have been 
robed in a radiant diamond spangle[d] tunic, such 
as Grseco-Roman matrons wore, with a leopard skin 
over her shoulders and crowned with an ivy wreath." 
As a jumble of choicely inappropriate classical allu- 
sion and flatulent rhetoric, the entire " story " well- 
nigh achieves the impossible. 
• • • 
Needed improvements in typography are 
now on the way, let us hope, to get themselves intelli- 
gently devised and generally adopted. With a view 
to the prevention of unnecessary eye-strain among 
readers a movement likely to lead to important 
results was inaugurated at the April meeting of the 
Boston Society of Printers. Upon motion of Mr. 
Harry Lyman Koopman, librarian of Brown Uui- 
versity, a committee was appointed to urge upon the 
Carnegie Institution the establishment of a depart- 
ment of research to make scientific tests of printing 
type, in regard to the comparative legibility of differ- 
ent letters and the possibility of improving certain 
of their forms. This type-reform movement will 
meet with more hearty and more nearly unanimous 
approval than its sister movement for making obso- 
lete our present spelling-books. A little reflection 
will convince anyone of the wide possibility of im- 
proving our type. Small e is the worst offender of 
the alphabet, as proved by laboratory tests, while the 
other six (t, a, i, n, o, s) of the seven most largely 
used letters of the printer's font are also notoriously 
bad characters. Small i with its dot has a general 
resemblance to I; n and u are continually getting 
into each other's places ; o and e are insufficiently 
differentiated ; and a (not italic) is often mistaken 
for s — in rapid reading, of course, and especially 
with type or plates a little worn. Dr. Cattell of 
Columbia University has recommended the use of 
the script form of small a, and the substitution of 
Greek lambda for the present small I ; and others 
have urged the restitution of the old-fashioned long s 
in an improved form, lengthened below the line, and 
either the abolition of the dot over the i or its eleva- 
tion to the level of the top of the letter I. These 
and other suggestions of similar character are not 
unlikely to result in some reformation (not too radi- 
cal) of our printed alphabet, and thus in the saving 
of our eyesight. , , , 

Carlyle's view of literature as a profes- 
sion was not rose-tinted. Close on the heels of the 
publication of his love-letters to Jane Welsh, and 
hers to him, comes the auction-sale, this month, of a 
rather long and important early letter of his ad- 
dressed to one " M. Allen, Esq.," who had offered 
him a secretaryship in case he chose to abandon the 
struggle to make a living at authorship. But 
although the offer came in the course of what he 
called " the three most miserable years of my life," 
he rejected it. A brief passage is worth quoting 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



319 



here as picturing the writer's state of dyspeptic 
despondency, in describing which, however, he evi- 
dently took an artistic delight, of a gloomy sort. 
The letter was written in January, 1821. "You 
asked me lately," he says toward the end, " if I 
would really take your secretary's place? And 
though I felt all the kindness implied in this ques- 
tion, and though my prospects here are not the 
most brilliant, my situation not the most comfort- 
able, I should not have experienced very much hesi- 
tation in answering no. Literature is like money, 
the appetite increases by gratification ; the mines of 
literature too are unwholesome and dreary as the 
mines of Potosi ; yet from either there is no return — 
and though little confident of finding contentment — 
happiness is too proud a term — I must work, I 
believe, in those damp caverns — till once the whole 
mind is recast or the lamp of life has ceased to burn 
within it." Had young Thomas Carlyle, by some 
unwisely kind fate, been started in a walk of life 
where there was nothing to complain of, how truly 
miserable he would have been ! 

• • « 

Our LiBEBAii LIBRARY RULES are often a sur- 
prise to those who have not been wont to avail 
themselves of their public-library privileges. The 
librarian in charge of one of the branches of the 
Enoch Pratt Free Library of Baltimore tells us, in 
Dr. Steiner's current report, of a recent "novel expe- 
rience " of hers. " On two different occasions," she 
says, " I have been offered payment, or rather a sort 
of collateral, of one dollar in each case, for a book 
issued on a card, the borrowers explaining ' they did 
not think we would trust them with a book, when 
we knew nothing about them.' On explaining to 
them that their borrower's card was all they need tO' 
obtain a book, they thought it ' a very wonderful 
system of spreading knowledge broadcast among the 
many who cannot buy it.' Do we need a better 
endorsement of the Free Circulating Library ? " 
Much other matter of interest will be found in the 
Keport. The city, by official action and by amend- 
ment of its charter, is now about to receive the 
benefit of Mr. Carnegie's generous gift of half a 
million dollars for twenty branch library buildings. 
Incredible as it may seem, last year was the first 
year in which the city government made an appro- 
priation for the Library's support. 

• • • 

The effect of age on the appetite for read- 
ing is different in different persons. Hazlitt says : 
»*The greatest pleasure in life is that of reading, 
while we are young. I have had as much of this 
pleasure as perhaps anyone. As I grow older, it 
fades ; or else, the stronger stimulus of writing takes 
off the edge of it. At present, I have neither time 
nor inclination for it." This was written about five 
years before the author's death ; but he died at the 
early age of fifty-two. Carlyle, in his later years, 
often referred in his correspondence to the inferior 
pleasure derived from reading as compared with the 



absorbing mental activity of writing. On the other 
hand, old age has brought to many not only increased 
leisure for reading, but also richer satisfaction in the 
companionship of books. To be sure, much that 
pleased the youthful reader no longer interests the 
more mature ; but, in compensation, the latter has 
acquired a far wider range of interests and memories 
and associations, and while he is more discriminating 
he also can find food for the mind in hundreds of 
books that meant nothing to him in youth. The 
writer who allows his passion for producing books 
to kill his faculty for getting pleasure and profit 
from the books of others, is laying up remorse and 
regret and vacant unrest for his old age. 

• • • 

A CURIOUS INSTANCE OF FORESIGHT or WaS it 

merely a happy accident? — attracts the attention 
of magazine readers. Twenty-five years ago the 
popular novelist known to all the world as " Ouida," 
and to some small part of it as Louise de la Ramde, 
offered the J. B. Lippincott Co. two manuscripts for 
posthumous publication. They were accepted, paid 
for, and put away in the company's safe, to await the 
death of the writer, an event which now has released 
both the gifted woman's soul from its bondage of 
clay and the manuscripts from their prison of steel. 
The May number of " Lippincott's Magazine " con- 
tains one of the articles ; the June issue will contain 
the other. They are entitled " Shall Women Vote ? " 
and " Love versus Avarice." Did the writer foresee 
the "suffragette" of this year of grace? It is 
asserted that she did, and, moreover, that "the 
somewhat startling reasons advanced by Ouida for 
the feminine unrest of to-day, and for the social evil 
that prevails, may be said to justify the author's 
unusual stipulation." , , , 

Dr. Crothers's "hundred worst books," an 
amusing catalogue amusingly annotated, which his 
readers have been awaiting with some eagerness of 
interest, and which now appears in the May 
"Atlantic," is rather disappointingly defective. 
With all its brightness and readableness, the article 
names only three of the expected hundred awful 
examples of what a book should not be ; and these 
three are obscure and otherwise uninteresting works 
that the writer happened to have in his own library. 
The remaining ninety-seven, therefore, await the 
kind attention of some other critic or critics. A 
good chapter could be written on really famous 
and deservedly famous old books that, for various 
reasons, now have so decidedly negative an attrac- 
tion for us as to fall easily into the class of the 
world's worst literature. There is, for example, 
Cudworth's learned and lauded work, "The True 
Intellectual System of tha Universe ; wherein the 
Reason and Philosophy of Atheism is confuted " — 
of whose author Dryden found it in his heart to say : 
" He raised such strong objections against the being 
of a God and Providence, that many thought he had 
not answered them." And there is Dr. Erasmus 



320 



THE DIAL 



[May 16, 



Darwin's poem in quarto on "The Loves of the 
Plants," which inspired the parody, " The Loves of 
the Triangles," and which Byron dismissed as 
" pompous rhyme." To be worthy of inclusion even 
in a list of worst books, a book should rise to the 
dignity of literature ; the vast ocean of unregarded 
printed matter is out of the reckoning. 

A BuifYAN MEMORIAL IN WESTMINSTER AbBEY 

wUl before long, according to present indications, 
put a stop to those expressions of surprise on the 
part of visitors, and especially American visitors, 
that four years ago gave the first impetus to the 
present movement for supplying a glaring and un- 
accountable omission. It was a gathering of a 
world's congress of Baptists in 1905 that first called 
general attention to the tardiness of Banyan's coun- 
trymen in rendering him due honor. As is acknowl- 
edged by the English themselves, the lack of any 
Bunyan memorial in England's Hall of Fame was 
pointed out by American delegates to this conven- 
tion, and their interposition it largely was that led to 
the call for subscriptions and the subsequent selection 
of a suitable memorial. The latter will take the 
form of a window depicting scenes from " The Pil- 
grim's Progress." A fund of about fourteen hun- 
dred pounds is being raised, of which more than 
one-third has already been received or promised. 

• • • 

Crawford's place in literature is being 
fixed, but not immutably, by current chroniclers of 
his death and critics of his life-work. In facility 
and rapidity of execution he was little inferior to 
the astonishingly prolific TroUope ; and like him he 
wrote, and professed to write, not with a view to 
producing books that should live after his death, 
but books that should enable their author to live 
comfortably until his death. Just which one of the 
lesser novelists of assured fame he stands nearest 
to on the mountain-slope that leads up to immortal 
eminence, it is impossible to decide ; but the variety 
and ingenuity of his work, his wide knowledge of 
many men of many nations, and his interest in 
the perennially fascinating problems of occult psy- 
chology, will win him readers for years to come, 
and it would not be surprising if his best books 
(which in general are his earlier books) should out- 
live those of authors now ranked as his superiors. 

• • • 

A VARIOUSLY GIFTED LIBRARIAN, and One who 

was considered by his acquaintance an unusual com- 
bination of firmness without obstinacy, of amiability 
without weakness, and of diplomacy without insin- 
cerity, died in Boston on the 28th of last month, and 
left the Massachusetts State Library without a head. 
Caleb Benjamin Tillinghast, born at Greenwich, R.L, 
in 1843, was brought up on a farm and struggled with 
the limitations of New England country life, attend- 
ing district school in the winter, and reading all the 
books within his reach. An association library five 



miles away, to which he made a weekly pilgrimage 
on foot, appears to have been his university ; and 
it was one that offered no seductive courses in 
English prose fiction, of which he knew nothing in 
his youth. School-teaching followed as a natural 
sequel to his studious pursuits ; then came a taste of 
journalism, and, thirty years ago, his appointment 
to the position held by him at the time of his death. 
The long list of Mr. Tillinghast's society and club 
memberships bears evidence to his variety of in- 
terests. When, in 1897, Harvard made him a 
Master of Arts, President Eliot, with his accustomed 
aptness and terseness of characterization, thus 
accompanied the presentation of the degree : " Caleb 
Benjamin Tillinghast — State Librarian, sure guide 
to all the documents and records of the Common- 
wealth, himself a living index at the service of every 
inquirer." ... 

The SUICIDE of John Davidson, the English 
poet — if he really has committed suicide, as is now 
believed — is a most melancholy event ; and be- 
sides the painful shock it gives to even the distant 
reader, there is necessarily something of shame and 
humiliation in the thought of the act. Chatterton 
will never quite win our forgiveness for his lack of 
pluck when in his loneliness and destitution he 
suffered himself to be overwhelmed. Far less can 
we contemplate with unmingled pity and indulgence 
this later poet, and husband and father besides, in 
his last moments of helpless despair. The life of 
letters is, and probably always will be, more or less 
subject to hardships : but it need not for that reason 
be an unheroic life. , , , 

The PERENNIAL CHARM OF THE MYSTERIOUS is 

illustrated by the eagerness with which Sir Conan 
Doyle's and Mr. Hornung's detective stories are 
being read in France, especially in Paris, as fast as 
they can be translated and published ; and just now 
this process is said to be a rapid one. To the 
fellow-countrymen of Emile Gaboriau these Anglo- 
Saxon followers in his footsteps make a strong 
appeal, as might have been expected. Meantime 
native writers are not lacking to minister to the 
national appetite for tales of complexity and puzzle- 
ment. Messrs. Maurice Leblanc and Gaston Leroux, 
among others, are inventing tangled plots and devis- 
ing elaborate complications for the wonder and per- 
plexity and delight of their readers. How many 
thousands there are to be thrilled by exhibitions of 
this mechanical ingenuity, so to speak, where a scant 
dozen or fifteen will find their recreation and inspira- 
tion in a novel of real depth and power ! 
• ■ • 
The PUBLIC library's three-tenths of a mill 
— the tax levy imposed in some communities for 
maintenance of this department of public educar 
tion — constitutes an absurdly small proportion of 
the whole tax. Millions for graft, but only a few 
reluctant thousands for literature — such is virtually 
the motto of many city finance committees. The 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



321 



Library Board of Toledo, Ohio, finding the present 
annual appropriation sadly inadequate to the increas- 
ing demands made upon the library, pleaded with a 
hard-hearted committee of finance for an increase 
of two-tenths of a mill in the tax levy, to be added to 
the customary three-tenths. And what is the answer 
to this prayer? A paltry three-hundredths of a 
mill ! The natural and, it is to be hoped, salutary 
result is a storm of protest and expostulation from 
indignant lovers of books. This matter, impres- 
sively set forth in the current report of the Toledo 
Public Library, furnishes food for reflection. 
• • • 

Mr. Meredith's estimate of Swinburne finds 
expression — or partial expression — in a letter to 
Mr. Theodore Watts-Dunton, written immediately 
after the poet's death. " Song was his natural 
voice," says Mr. Meredith. " He was the greatest 
of our lyrical poets — of the world's, I could say, 
considering what a language he had to wield." He 
continues, in a personal vein : " But if I feel the loss 
of him as a part of our life torn away, how keenly 
must the stroke fall on you — and at a time of pros- 
tration from illness. HappUy, you have a wife for 
comfort and consolation. That helps to comfort 
me in my dire distress of mind on behalf of your 
stricken household which I see beneath the shadow." 
This warmth of eulogy is necessarily something dif- 
ferent from the cool judgment of posterity ; but its 
source gives it a measure of authority. 

Auction sales of old and rare books have 
shown no evidence of the general hard times in the 
past year. In New York, for instance, no fewer than 
twelve hundred records for high prices were made 
at Anderson's auction rooms, and the sales of the 
large Poor, Chamberlain, and Hermann collections 
are said to have aggregated about three hundred 
thousand dollars. Rare old first editions and auto- 
graph copies are luxuries, but there have ever been 
those who would sooner forego the necessities than 
the luxuries of life ; or at least they say they would. 



COMMUNICA TIONS. 



FROM THE LIBRARY COPYRIGHT LEAGUE. 
(To the Editor of The Dial.) 

It was to be presumed that the passage of a new 
copyright act by the last Congress would end copyright 
discussion for a time. It would please those who have 
opposed the contentions of the American Publishers' 
Copyright League if the matter could have rested at 
least until the next session of Congress. 

We cannot allow, however, the glaring misstatements 
contained in Mr. George Haven Putnam's letter in your 
issue of April 16th to go unchallenged, if only for the 
sake of truth. 

All of the arguments which he advances were ably 
presented to the committees on patents, both by Mr. 



Putnam and the legal advisers associated with him. 
The committees, who gave four years to the study of 
the subject, and made the fullest examination, recom- 
mended the new bill imanimously; it is evident that 
these gentlemen were not favorably impressed with the 
justice of the arguments against importation for use and 
not for sale. 

Mr. Putnam's arguments are, if we understand them, 
as follows: 

1. Importation of copyrighted books is forbidden 
in England, but allowed in the United States by the 
new law. The truth is that non-British editions of 
books originating in England are forbidden importation 
if imported for sale and copyrighted in England. Pre- 
cisely the same applies in the new law. Foreign editions 
of books by an American author are forbidden importa- 
tion by individuals. Foreign editions of books by an 
English author are not forbidden importation into the 
United States, when imported for use and not for sale. 
Foreign (American) editions of books by an American 
author are not forbidden importation into England. The 
conditions are absolutely the same, except that libraries 
are allowed unrestricted importation of single copies of 
any book in the new United States law. 

2. The privilege of importation of copyrighted books 
for individual use was " interpolated into the act of 
1891 diu*ing the last hours of the session." This is 
simply an absolutely false statement. The matter was 
debated in the Senate on several occasions. Anyone 
desiring to read the speeches in favor of this provision 
should examine Vol. 22 of the Congressional Record, 
beginnmg on February 9, 1891. They will find speeches 
by Senator Frye, Senator Sherman, and others on this 
very matter. 

3. Mr, Putnam cites the Cambridge History of En- 
glish Literature as showing the injustice of the law to 
the American publisher. Let us look at the facts. This 
work sells, in the American edition, to the American 
private student, for $2.50 per volume. The English 
edition sells to the English student for seven shillings 
and sixpence, which at the usual rate of exchange means 
$1.82. To import a copy of the work, through an 
importer in New York City, will cost about $2.30. It 
could not be imported for this price through some of 
the houses which charge such rates for importation as 
would be charged " if imported through the American 
copyright proprietor." It can be imported, for a library, 
for about two dollars, not as Mr. Putnam says, for more 
than the American edition costs, " equally attractive in 
form." From many years' experience, we can confi- 
dently say that many of our English purchases cost us 
over twenty per cent less than the best American price, 
and, as it often has been six months before an American 
edition is published, we can wear out a copy of the book 
before the American publisher decides it is a commer- 
cial success to publish it. The English editions are 
often better. 

4. Mr. Putnam wants us to import " under the permis- 
sion of the owner of the copyright." This was the " joker " 
on which the publishers chiefly relied to establish a con- 
trol of prices. Suppose the " owner of the copyright " 
asked a price equal to one dollar for every shilling that 
the book cost in England. Why shouldn 't he? Where 
would the American student be then? Just where the 
publishers of books have been trying to put him, entirely 
at their mercy. 

It is a well-known fact that the American Publishers' 
Association has been trying to increase the price of 



822 



THE DIAL 



[May 16, 



books to " all the traffic will stand " for a long time. 
If it had not been for the fear that they wonld be prose- 
cuted for infringement of the Sherman law, they would 
have kept up their open agreement to control book 
prices, instead of as at present doing it under the cover 
of " advice to the members." Frightened by a decision 
in Pennsylvania in the ""retail drug" cases, they pre- 
tended to abrogate their agreement in January, 1907. 
They have tried to establish their monopoly by suits at 
law, by an attempt to have monopoly clauses inserted 
in the copyright bill, and, as a last resort, their printers 
asked the Committee on Ways and Means to do away 
with free importation, and raise the duty from twenty- 
five per cent to seventy-five per cent. They failed in 
the courts, they failed in the copyright bill, and they 
will fail in the tariff bill. 

Mr. Putnam alleges that "the librarians who have 
standing arrangements with purchasing agents in Lon- 
don, find it an inconvenience to instruct these agents to 
except from their shipments books which are being pro- 
duced in Copyright American editions." This state- 
ment is so remarkable and so contrary to what we know 
from personal experience of the practice of libraries that 
Mr. Putnam ought to give the basis of this statement 
in order to obtain any credence for it. 

One more point. The English author gets less royalty 
for a copy of his book sold in America than for a copy 
sold in England. The usual royalty for the colonies 
and America is one-half that for Great Britain, just as 
the royalty for an American avithor for copies sold in 
England is visually one-half that for copies sold in 
America. The object of a copyright bill, we have sup- 
posed, was to secure remuneration to the author. Mr. 
Putnam's prohibition of importation would result in less 
royalty to the man who wrote the book, and a higher 
price to the man who wants to read the book. It would 
result in the impoverishment of both for the benefit of 
an American publisher. It would prevent, instead of 
assisting, the free spread of printed thought. 

No foreign nation has a law which forbids the im- 
portation of books for use and not for sale. A lengthy 
compilation by the Librarian of Congress establishes 
this fact, and all the great legal authorities on copyright 
announce this privilege of importation as existing. In 
Canada, such importation is compulsory on the copy- 
right proprietor. These facts should be known, and 
should not be misrepresented. 

Bernard C. Steiner (Enoch Pratt 
Free Library), 
President Library Copyright League. 
W. P. Cutter (Forbes Library), 
May 1, 1909. Secretary. 

"THE BLUE BIRD" AT MOSCOW. 
(To the Editor of The Dial.) 

In his delightful appreciation of " The Blue Bird " 
in the May 1 number of The Dial, Mr. Edward E. 
Hale, Jr., wonders whether M. Maeterlinck's new play 
has ever been staged. It has been played in Moscow, 
in the wonderful Art Theatre of M. Stanislawski. In 
" The Mask," that unique joiimal of the theatres of the 
world, published at Florence, Italy, Mr. Gordon Craig 
has written in enthusiastic terms of the work of this 
successful non-commercial theatre, and recently he de- 
voted an interesting article to the acting of "The Bine 
Bird " there. Margaret Vance. 

Oak Park, HI., May 5, 1909. 



%\t ^^to gooks. 



A liiFE OF Scientific Reseakch.* 



An autobiographic volume from the eminent 
author of " Hereditary Genius " is a book to 
take up with confident expectation of enjoyment 
and instruction. It is now forty years since 
that epoch-making work made its appearance 
and elicited from Darwin a letter of enthusiastic 
commendation. " I do not think I ever in all 
my life read anything more interesting and 
original," he wrote ; " and how well and clearly 
you put every point ! . . . I congratulate you 
on producing what I am convinced will prove a 
memorable work." 

Well and clearly, too, are the main events 
and interests of Mr. Galton's busy life related 
in this latest product of his active pen. " Mem- 
ories of my Life " he entitles his reminiscences, 
and he writes with such restraint and compres- 
sion that little more than three hundred octavo 
pages are required by him for the telling of his 
story. It might well have been longer without 
wearying the reader. But the author chose to 
give serious heed to Falstaff's words, " Lord, 
Lord, how subject we old men are to this vice 
of lying," and to err on the safe side of truth 
and brevity. 

Mr. Galton's age (he was bom in 1822) and 
vigor and versatile powers are apt illustrations 
of those principles of heredity whose study has 
furnished him his favorite pursuit. Grandson 
of Erasmus Darwin, and hence cousin to Charles 
Darwin the naturalist, he numbers among his 
near kin many persons of marked character if 
not of genius ; and that physical vigor and 
length of life which often characterize the well- 
born are found in not a few of his ancestors on 
both sides. The reappearance in himself of 
ancestral traits, and the influence of environment 
in his formative years, have naturally seemed to 
the author more noteworthy than those incidents 
of his life that would appeal only to curiosity or 
a desire to be entertained. "There are," he 
stops to explain at one point, " many incidents 
that I could tell about this time of my life that 
might be interesting in some sense, but which 
are foreign to the main purpose of such an 
autobiogTaphy as mine, which is to indicate 
how the growth of a mind has been affected by 
circumstances." 

Medical studies formed the chief interest of 

• Memohies of my Life. By Francia Galton. F.R.8. With 
eight illustrations. New York: E. P. Dutton & Co. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



323 



his youth, and he came within a little of becoming 
a practising physician ; but his father's death 
and his own inheritance of a comfortable fortune 
operated to turn his thoughts toward travel and 
adventure. Consequently, after taking his degree 
at Cambridge and devoting some time to the 
gentlemanly pursuits of hunting and shooting, 
he entered upon those Eastern and African 
travels and explorations that bore fruit in vari- 
ous memoirs and addresses and in his first book, 
" Tropical South Africa," and also led to his 
election as Fellow of the Royal Society. The 
Geographical Society, too, presented him with 
a gold medal " for having at his own cost, and 
in furtherance of the expressed desire of the 
Society, fitted out an expedition to explore the 
centre of South Africa, and for having so suc- 
cessfully conducted it ... as to enable this 
Society to publish a valuable memoir and map 
in the last volume of the Journal, relating to a 
country hitherto unknown." As an African 
explorer, Mr. Galton takes occasion to question 
the seriousness of Livingstone's situation when 
the " New York Herald " undertook, with such 
blare of trumpets, his rescue through the instru- 
mentality of Stanley. He writes : 

"I was on the Council of the Royal Geographical 
Society during all the time in question, and can testify 
to our extreme desire to help Livingstone, but in his 
later years he had become difficult to meddle with. He 
had a brusque resentment against anything that might 
be construed into patronage, feeling, as I understood, 
that he had been over-much ' exploited ' by his admirers. 
There was great fear by those in the Council who knew 
him better than I did, that he might be annoyed by any 
attempt to relieve him, and would resent it yet more 
bitterly than Emin Bey subsequently resented Stanley's 
compulsory relief. Again, there was no reason to sup- 
pose Livingstone to be in serious want. He was thor- 
oughly accustomed to natives of the widely dispersed 
Bantu race, among whom he probably then was. He 
travelled without a large party or other encumbrance, 
so that the favour of even a single chief, such as he 
might reasonably expect to gain, would amply suffice 
for his wants. Besides this, he did not care to write, 
and there was no knowing where a man like him might 
be, who had already walked right across Africa and 
back again. . . . One wishes that the whole thing could 
have been effected with less secrecy in the beginning, 
and less ostentation and comparison of Americans and 
English to the prejudice of the latter." 

Besides being a pioneer in the systematic 
study of heredity, Mr. Galton originated the 
now accepted system of finger-print identifica- 
tion (with which M. Alphonse Bertillon is often 
credited), and was the first to take up seriously 
the study of eugenics, or race-improvement. 
The very name " eugenics " we owe to him. A 
ellowship and a scholarship have been endowed 
by him in London University for research work 



in this new science, which is to accomplish much, 
he hopes, for the amelioration of the human race. 
The theory of the thing is beautiful. Let us 
quote our scientific Utopian. 

" After I had become satisfied of the inheritance of 
all the mental qualities into which I had inquired, and 
that heredity was a far more powerful agent in human 
development than nurture, I wished to explore the range 
of human faculty in various directions in order to ascer- 
tain the degree to which breeding might, at least theo- 
retically, modify the human race. I took the moderate 
and reasonable standpoint that whatever quality had 
appeared in man, and in whatever intensity, it admitted 
of being bred for and reproduced on a large scale. 
Consequently a new race might be created possessing on 
the average an equal degree of quality and intensity 
as in the exceptional case. Relative infertility might 
of course stand in the way, but otherwise everything 
seemed to show that races of highly gifted artists, saints, 
mathematicians, administrators, mechanicians, contented 
labourers, musicians, militants, and so forth, might be the- 
oretically called into existence, the average excellence of 
each race in its particular line being equal to that of its 
most highly gifted representative at the present moment." 

In one of his chapters the author explodes a 
popular belief which has even more recently been 
proved false. He tested the delicacy of the 
touch-sense of a large number of blind children, 
first promising a reward to those who should 
display the greatest degree of sensitiveness. 
Accordingly all did their best, " but their per- 
formances fell distinctly short of ordinary per- 
sons." The experimenter afterward found " a 
marked correlation between at least this form of 
sensitiveness and general ability." 

The impressions made by great men on one 
another are often significant and instructive. 
Mr. Galton's remembrances of Herbert Spencer 
contribute some most readable pages to his book. 
The Synthetic Philosopher once accompanied 
him to the Derby, but had already arrived by 
deduction at so accurate a conception of the 
whole event that it failed to interest him. He 
also said that the crowd of men on the grass 
looked disagreeable, like flies on a plate. " Still, 
he evidently liked the excursion, and notwith- 
standing his asseverations at the time to the 
contrary, he repeated his experience on at least 
one subsequent occasion." From each of these 
men we are now fortunate in possessing a 
" human document " of value, though the later 
writer has taken himself far less seriously in his 
autobiography than did his predecessor. 

In visits at Lord Ashburton's country place, 
Mr. Galton twice met Carlyle, who on the 
second occasion seemed to him " the greatest 
bore that a house could tolerate." 

" He had a well-known story then to the fore, which 
W. H. Brookfield . . . told me he had indulged in five 



324 



THE DIAL 



[May 16, 



times that day already, and undertook that he should 
repeat it for my benefit a sixth time, which he did. 
Then Carlyle raved about the degeneracy of the modern 
English without any fact in justification, and contributed 
nothing that I could find to the information or pleasure 
of the society. He, however, executed a performance 
with great seriousness which was decidedly funny, by 
hopping gravely on one leg up and down within the 
pillars of the portico, which he had discovered to be a 
prompt way of warming himself in the then chilly 
weather." 

Thus unheroic do our heroes sometimes appear 
to their contemporaries. 

A line in " Who 's Who " informs all whom 
it may concern that Mr. Galton's recreations 
are " sunshine, quiet, and good wholesome food." 
An author with such simple, sensible tastes is 
more than likely to write in a plain and terse 
and readable style. The straightforwardness 
and unpretentiousness of Mr. Galton's book 
win the reader's favor and hold his attention to 
the end. The book has the excellent fault of 
being shorter than one could have wished. 
Percy F. Bicknell. 



America and the Far Eastern 
Question.* 

So much history has been made in the Far 
East since the Russo-Japanese War that persons 
desiring to keep well informed on the questions 
of importance there must welcome any book 
presenting a summary of the recent events in 
Eastern Asia, and especially when the work is 
concerned particularly with America's interests 
in these developments. Such a book is Mr. 
Millard's study of " America and the Far 
Eastern Question," which continues the story 
from the point where his volume entitled " The 
New Far East " left it, in 1905, to the Root- 
Takahira notes of November, 1908. In this 
period Mr. Millard twice visited the Far East, 
and much of his material is based upon his 
observations during these visits. 

The title which Mr. Millard has chosen for 
his book is somewhat misleading, for although 
about one-third of the chapters deal with various 
aspects of American interests, fully one-half of 
the book is devoted to a study of conditions in 
Japan since the war and to Japanese activities 
in Korea and Manchuria. A discussion of re- 
cent happenings in China and a brief reference 
to the Russians in Manchuria complete the book. 

That this emphasis is placed upon Japan is 
due, of course, to the importance of Japan in 

* America and the Fak Eastern Question. By Thomas 
F. Millard. Illustrated. New York : Moffat, Yard & Co. 



any study of the recent history of the Far East, 
and Mr. Millard has no doubts as to the signifi- 
cance of some of her recent actions. But in a 
book dealing with events of such recent date 
it is necessary that much of the discussion be 
merely a statement of the opinions of the author. 
And for that reason it is important to know in 
what spirit Mr. Millard approached his task of 
interpreting Japanese activities to the western 
world. 

In his preface the author states that " some 
persons will profess to find in this, as many did 
in my previous work, an anti-Japanese preach- 
ment." But he disclaims any desire to injure 
Japan. " I wish the Japanese nation and people 
success in aspirations which do not tend to 
cause international dissension and strife by 
impairing interests of other nations. That the 
present policy of Japan has this tendency is a 
conclusion I have reached after closely observing 
its trend for several years, and from studying 
its practical effects in localities where it is 
directly applied." So Mr. Millard's new book 
may be taken as another thesis designed to prove 
the dangerous possibilities of Japanese aspira- 
tions. And as with every thesis, the reader 
must use considerable care in weighing opinions 
advanced to support the text. One does not 
have to read far to conclude that Mr MiUard 
has already decided the case against the 
Japanese, and that no evidence in their defence 
need be urged. A striking example of his 
argument, and yet almost a typical one, is his 
reference to the Emperor. " One hears in Japan 
varying opinions about the personality of the 
present Emperor. Many regard him as the usual 
figurehead, occupying himself, after Oriental 
fashion, with sensual pleasures, and leaving the 
cares of government to his ministers. The 
Crown Prince is generally regarded as being 
duU, almost a booby, and is not entrusted with 
responsibility." That many other people have 
an entirely different opinion of the Emperor's 
personality is not mentioned. And this method 
of argument constantly appears when Japanese 
acts or motives are under discussion. The bad 
report is given without any reference to qualify- 
ing opinion. 

Other examples of Mr. Millard's attitude 
toward the Japanese might be mentioned if 
necessary. This apparent prejudice is very im- 
fortunate, because Mr. Millard has had oppor- 
tunities to study conditions which are of great 
interest to the western world. But it would be 
difficult for anyone to accept unreservedly the 
arraignment of Japanese financial and industrial 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



325 



methods, of her conduct in Korea and her false- 
ness in Manchuria, when it is based upon such 
evident lack of sympathy. Mr. Millard tells us 
that " in estimating some matters Japanese are 
a bit out of perspective just now." Possibly 
some readers may come to the same conclusion 
regarding this latest treatment of Japanese 
policies. 

In dealing with China and her problems Mr. 
Millard is as sympathetic as he is severe in his 
treatment of Japan. He has great hopes for 
the reform movement. " China can wait for 
a constitution and representative government. 
. . . The abolition of extra-territoriality also 
can wait. But recovery of pseudo-political 
foreign concessions and leaseholds, extension of 
a modern educational system, the creation of a 
modern army and navy, chiefly require money ; 
and to get money China must reform her finan- 
cial and fiscal systems. Here, then, is where 
real reform must begin." Because of the gen- 
uine community of interests between the United 
States and China we should adopt " an aggres- 
sive policy in Asia " which would serve to 
strengthen China against her enemies. But 
apparently this policy points to the giving of 
good advice, the stretching out of a friendly 
hand to support and guide China along a diffi- 
cult path. " The United States can assume 
leadership in the Pacific, if an energetic policy 
is adopted . . . and it is probable that unless 
America does again interfere in eastern affairs 
another great war will occur in a few years." 

But in considering the work of the Americans 
in the Philippines Mr. Millard is not only sym- 
pathetic but highly optimistic. In this case the 
administration is generally supported against 
the critics on the spot, and policies and perform- 
ances are highly praised. It is a pleasure to be 
again reminded that " American officials and 
employes of the Philippine Government, of high 
and low degree, constitute a body whose efficiency 
and integrity is not surpassed, indeed is rarely 
equalled anywhere. It is, I believe, superior in 
morale and personnel to similar bodies in the 
United States." The first Philippine Assembly 
is discussed at some length, and commended, 
especially for the way it assumed the responsi- 
bility placed upon it by the Commission. And 
even a good word is advanced for the Filipino 
as a laborer, when handled with tact and dis- 
cernment. This survey of the past few years 
of the American administration is a most grati- 
fying one. 

In the chapters entitled " America's Position 
in the Pacific " we have a discussion of the 



probable conduct of a war with Japan. A plea 
is made for strongly fortified posts in Hawaii 
and the Philippines, although if war breaks out 
within five years Japan would confine her en- 
deavors to an attack on the Philippines. Even 
before the Panama Canal is completed the major 
battleship fleet should be kept on the Pacific 
coast. Briefly stated, Mr. Millard finds that 
the United States has great interests in the 
Pacific arising from her trade and her insular 
possessions, and it will be necessary to play a 
more important part in Eastern diplomacy until 
by her participation a stable balance of power 
in the Far East is created. 

If one could have more confidence in the 
soundness of Mr. Millard's views the present 
work would be of considerable value. It is 
certainly most suggestive, and the style com- 
mands one's interest. The thirteen appendices, 
containing the texts of treaties and other papers 
from the treaty of Portsmouth to the Root- 
Takahira notes, add to the value of the book. 
An index would have been much appreciated. 
As the latest study of Far Eastern politics, Mr. 
MiUard's book should be read by all who desire 
to follow recent developments there, and even 
if they question the opinions advanced from 
time to time they cannot fail to enjoy the treaty- 
port gossip which enlivens the pages. It is 
always enjoyable, but rarely convincing. 

Payson J. Treat. 



The Century of the Child.* 



Abundant food for thought and unlimited 
material for discussion are to be found in Ellen 
Key's " The Century of the Child," which has 
just been translated from the Swedish — or, 
more correctly, has just come to English readers 
through the German by double translation. 
The original was published in 1900, and took its 
title from a saying of one of the characters in 
" The Lion's Whelp": " The next century will 
be the century of the chdd, just as this century 
has been the woman's century." 

It is unfortunate that the author's most 
radical views, and those that are likely to be 
thought subversive of morality, are set forth 
in the opening chapter, which concerns mar- 
riage and parenthood ; for many readers will 
be turned aside at this point and miss the chap- 
ters on Education which are the most valuable 
part of the book. Those who have patience 

*The Century of the Child. By Ellen Key. Translation 
of the German version of Frances Maro. New York: Q. P. 
Putnam's Sons. 



326 



THE DIAL 



[May 16, 



with the matrimonial heresies of this chapter, 
and will read further, are likely to discover that 
they were at the beginning introduced to the 
writer's greatest weakness as well as to her 
greatest strength. Her strength lies in her 
abstract ideals for the conditions under which 
children should be bom and educated ; her 
weakness, in her apparent inability to recognize 
and her obvious unwillingness to acknowledge 
the part which religious and social institutions 
have had in preparing the world for these ideals 
and their realization. We learn from biograph- 
ical sketches of Ellen Key, that she has severed 
her connection with all organized social move- 
ments. Her book indicates that she has done 
this with a bitterness of spirit that makes her 
an unfair critic. 

To illustrate : The " woman's rights move- 
ment " seems to her to stand only for an effort 
on the part of women to secure, solely for their 
own satisfaction, educational advantages and 
admission to professions and fields of activity 
from which they have been excluded in the past. 
Th(;re is within the movement, as she sees it, 
no solidarity of spirit except that which has a 
distinctly selfish purpose. To this understand- 
ing we may not offer objection ; for every per- 
son has a right to his own definition of a term 
so elastic as the " woman's rights movement." 
We may, however, dissent when women as a 
class, or any class of women, are held responsi- 
ble for the demoralizing effect of modern factory 
life upon working women and upon the homes 
of working people. These effects can in fair- 
ness be charged only to our industrial system, 
and not to the ambitions of a sex. 

If it is true that the adherents of the woman's 
rights movement as Ellen Key knows it are 
hopelessly blind to the fact that " the passion 
to discover truth must be accompanied by the 
passion to use it for the welfare of mankind," 
that they are not interested in protective legis- 
lation for women and children nor in supporting 
organized efforts of working women to improve 
their own conditions, then there is for her only 
one possible line of action ; i. c, to sever her 
connection with the movement and then to work 
alone or to form new associations for the pur- 
pose of gaining opportunity to work effectively 
in the interests of humanity. Individual de- 
velopment, however, must precede social use- 
fulness ; and the woman's rights movement, even 
in the narrowest conception we have of it, has 
secured for women the education and the train- 
ing necessary for efficient organized work in 
behalf of education, the home, and the child. 



That the coming century is to be the century of 
the child partly because the century just passed 
was the woman's century, is a fact which Ellen 
Key fails to recognize. 

It is much the same with her treatment of 
Socialism . It is unfair to commend unreservedly 
a plan for pensioning mothers during the time 
their children need their care, without referring 
to the fact that this is one of the cardinal 
principles of Socialism ; unfair, also, to accuse 
Socialists as a whole of obstructing protective 
legislation, a charge which can be fairly brought 
against a small section of the party only. 

The writer's attitude toward marriage is much 
the same as her attitude toward the woman's 
rights movement and Socialism. With her high 
ideals for "the common living of man and 
woman," she apparently fails to credit the in- 
stitution of marriage and the legal protections 
which have been thrown about it with having 
fostered and promoted these ideals. 

But while we object to many of the conclu- 
sions of the book, our hearts go out in sympathy 
to the author, who, a keen observer of life, saw 
that at the opening of this century (the twentieth 
after Christ) " the passions of men were still 
aroused in economic and in actual warfare," 
that " despite all the tremendous development 
of civilization in the century just passed, man 
had not yet succeeded in giving to the struggle 
for existence nobler forms," and that " Christian 
people continued to plunder one another and 
call it exchange, to murder one another eii masse 
and call it nationalism, to oppress one another 
and call it statesmanship." No wonder she was 
led to criticize the conditions under which the 
succeeding generations of this slowly developing 
race have been educated, and also the conditions 
under which they have been born. 

The chapters on Education redeem the rest 
of the book, although they contain much that is 
inapplicable to our system of public instruction, 
for we have abolished many of the abuses that 
are mentioned. Like Ellen Key, however, we 
are still seeking a kind of education which will 
give to the world " new types of people with 
higher ideals, — travellers on unknown paths, 
thinkers of yet unthought thoughts, people 
capable of the crime of inaugurating new ways "; 
and we acknowledge that we have in her not 
only a companion in ideals but a leader in 
methods. Her chapters on Education are mas- 
terly contributions to the literature of pedagogy, 
the result of a profound sympathy with and an 
understanding of child nature, and of long 
experience in child-training. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



327 



Except to those who insist upon rejecting as 
a whole, if they cannot accept as a whole, any 
book that embodies a call to action, " The 
Century of the Child " offers abundant inspira- 
tion. The truth is that it contains a definite 
programme for woman's future work, organized 
as well as unorganized, in the interest of the 
child. This, to be sure, can be read as a whole 
only by patching together bits that are scattered 
about among the denunciations of peoples and 
institutions ; but the book itself is probably 
much more readable than it would be if the 
programme were presented in orderly and sys- 
tematic fashion. Caroline L. Hunt. 



Some Very Moderx Types.* 



Mr.Huneker's previous studies of personalities 
in the world of drama and music will prepare the 
reader for stimulation from his new book with 
the piquant title : " Egoists : A Book of Super- 
men." The title is perhaps not exact, for not 
all his egoists are properly to be classed by the 
name made famous by Nietzsche ; still, they are 
as a group characterized by certain stigmata 
which distinguish, more or less, the men he 
studies : morbid subjectivity, irregular lives, 
and brilliant if erratic achievement. 

Mr. Huneker, with his interest in a field 
trodden by few critics, is doing a service by this 
exploitation of writers and thinkers little known 
and less understood. It is perhaps inevitable 
that he has not entirely escaped the contagion 
of his theme, and so exhibits traits both of style 
and thought which are not admirable. His 
diction is all his own, and has its fascination ; 
but it is an uneasy style, like a rapid series of 
electric sparks. Even hon mots tire unless the 
law of relief and contrast is obeyed. Strange 
and startling words occur, until the reader is 
almost stunned ; repetitions are so frequent as 
to suggest that the author regards them as the 
bugbear of small minds. 

On the side of thought, this verbal smartness 
sometimes leads Mr. Huneker to prefer cynical 
epigram or the clever half-truth to genuine seri- 
ousness of statement. Discussing Nietzsche, he 
says : " Gossip has whispered that he was hope- 
lessly in love with Cosima Wagner. A charming 
theme for a psychological novel. So was Von 
Bulow, once — until he married her." Quoting 
Stendhal's '•'•Femmes I vous etes hien toujours 
les memes" he adds these words : " It is a 



* Egoists : A Book of Supermen. 
York: Charles Scribner'9 Sons. 



By James Huneker. New 



quotidian truth that few before him had the 
courage or clairvoyancy to enunciate." It woidd 
indeed be convenient, could the sex be reduced 
to a formula so simple. 

Nevertheless, Mr. Huneker has made a book 
that is not only entertaining but helpful. His 
studies are preeminently suggestive and sympa- 
thetic. Those on Stendhal, Baudelaire, Flau- 
bert, and Huysmans are especially informing, 
and really assist toward an understanding of 
more or less cryptic creatures. Obscure facts 
are brought to the light of day, and always a 
lively impression given of a personality hitherto, 
for most of us, walking in a mist. 

Especially sympathetic are the three studies, 
" Phases of Nietzsche," in which the apostle of 
the Overman is shown to be something besides 
an inconceivable freak both as man and thinker. 
The Ibsen paper, while it presents nothing really 
new, is in the main happily interpretative ; the 
author goes too far in declaring that the play- 
wright " lifted the ugly to heroic heights," for 
poetry of a strange kind is seldom absent from 
his work. In view of the little that has been 
said in English about Huysmans, one of the 
most valuable essays is that entitled " The Evo- 
lution of an Egoist "; it is worth while to have 
traced for us so clearly the curious evolution of 
a man who begins as a decadent making a cult 
of the monstrous and the abhorrent, and ends 
a mystic monk. To my mind there is nothing 
more penetrative in the book than the estimate 
of Walter Pater (in a chapter called " From an 
Ivory Tower "), where that writer is described 
as " an egoist of the higher type ; he seldom left 
his tour (T ivoire ; yet his work is human and 
concrete to the core." One forgives the author 
much, because of such critical flashes as that. 

Richard Burton. 



A Century op Colonial, History.* 



The second volume of Professor Edward 
Channing's " History of the United States," 
which now, after three years' delay, has at length 
been given to the expectant historical reader, 
reveals anew the deep scholarship and rare charm 
of style which commanded for the first instal- 
ment universal approval. In the former part 
of the work the beginnings of the Colonial era 
were carried down to the English Restoration 
of 1660. In the present volume, the opening 
chapters of which are admirably correlated with 

* a History of the United States. By Edward Cbanning:- 
Volume II.. A Century of Colonial History. 1680-1760. With 
maps. New York: The Macmillan Co. 



328 



THE DIAL 



[May 16, 



what went before, is covered that important 
century which lay between the Restoration of 
the Stuarts and the Peace of Paris of 1763, a 
century of empire-building fateful in the annals 
both of England and of America. In structure, 
the book consists of three parts : first, the nar- 
rative of the development of the Colonies gen- 
erally to about 1700, and of Pennsylvania and 
the Carolinas to the middle of the century ; 
second, the description of various phases of 
Colonial civilization ; and third, the story of the 
rivalry of France and England in the New 
World. 

If any unfavorable criticism be deserved, it 
is to be grounded upon the absence of a com- 
plete and unified survey of Colonial and Imperial 
politics in the first half of the eighteenth cen- 
tury. Throughout the revolution of 1688 the 
treatment is systematic and admirably propor- 
tioned ; but the epoch of Walpole's control of 
English affairs, it must be confessed, seems not 
so skilfully handled or so thoroughly analyzed. 
Perhaps this difference is in a way but the reflec- 
tion of the circumstance that the earlier period 
has been as rich in monographic literature as 
the latter period has been neglected. 

At the outset. Professor Channing recalls, as 
is his wont, the close relations that constantly 
existed between English and Colonial history. 
He begins with the picture of that group of 
" colonizing courtiers" who encircled Charles II., 
and who found in the plantation of Colonies, as 
in the African trade or the exploitation of 
Hudson Bay, a possible source of replenishment 
for their shattered fortunes. Professor Chan- 
ning then rapidly sketches the English commer- 
cial system, in which the government adopted 
the policy of those Puritans whose work the 
leaders of English politics under the later Stuart 
monarchy tried in so many other respects to 
destroy. There is due account of the various 
councils and committees which in this period 
looked out for Colonial affairs, though perhaps 
somewhat scant notice is given of the influence 
of the merchants, such as Povey and Noell, upon 
national policy. The author then takes up the 
narrative of the settlement of the Carolinas, the 
conquest of the Middle Colonies, and the affairs 
of New England through King Philip's War. 
After this he takes up the South, especially 
Virginia, and Bacon's Rebellion. Next follows 
an account of George Fox, William Penn, the 
Quakers, and Pennsylvania. The narrative 
then turns back to the Northern-central Col- 
onies, and explains their relation to the French 
and the characteristics of the Stuart government, 



thus leading up to a clear discussion of the 
Revolution and the reconstructed Colonial sys- 
tem, with its new machinery and its additional 
legislation. 

In this first half of the book the tone has 
been prevailingly that of narrative, though many 
interesting comments are interwoven, like those 
on the sober trade of the Colonial merchants 
and the more romantic ventures of Colonial 
pirates. But after selecting the Colonies of 
Pennsylvania and the Carolinas for the special 
emphasis of their later development, the second 
part of the book becomes topical in treatment, 
and we read chapters which are really brilliant 
little essays upon the labor system, immigration, 
religious toleration, education, industry, and 
commerce of the Colonies. Finally, as we have 
already suggested, the last chapters are con- 
cerned with the development of New France 
and Louisiana, and the subordination of these, 
in their most important parts, to Great Britain. 

Sometimes, though very infrequently, Pro- 
fessor Channing seems to give a rather strained 
interpretation to a document. An example is 
found in the chapter upon the colonization of 
Carolina, where the writer maintains (p. 15) that 
in the second charter to the Lords Proprietory, 
" the King went farther and himself granted 
liberty of conscience in matters of religious con- 
cernment to all colonists of Carolina who should 
live peaceably." The wording of the charter, 
as Mr. McCrady we think has shown, indicates 
that the King made no such direct grant, but 
merely re-stated in wider terms what the Pro- 
prietors might do, and promised that those to 
whom the Proprietors granted indulgences 
should not be molested. In his first volume. 
Professor Channing himself pointed out the 
important connection between the phraseology 
as to toleration in the Rhode Island Charter 
and that in the " Instriunent of Government " 
of the Cromwellian period ; a little examination 
reveals that this Rhode Island Charter and that 
given to the Carolina Proprietors in 1665 are 
in the clauses respecting religion almost identi- 
cal. One wishes that Professor Channing would 
throw more light upon the whole question of the 
relation of the Colonies to the religious policy 
of Charles II. 

As in the former volume, we find here no 
illustrations beyond serviceable maps. The 
appearance of the book is excellent, though a 
few errors, usually in the case of dates, have 
escaped the proof-reader ; for example, on page 
28, 1672 for 1670 ; page 77, 1775 for 1675 ; 
page 526, Brian Edwards for Bryan Edwards. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



329 



More remarkable is the bibliographical refer- 
ence, in a footnote to page 210, to Dr. E. E. 
Sparks's " Causes of the American Revolution 
of 1689," which at one time confuses both two 
Revolutions and two Doctors Sparks. 

St. George Leakin Sioussat. 



Briefs on New Books. 



For those who want a book of the old- 
anda^o're fashioned seagoing flavor, a mirror 

of the manners of the sailors whom 
SmoUett and Marryat drew and Gay and Dibdin 
sang, here it is — " The British Tar in Fact and 
Fiction," by Commander Charles N. Robinson, R.N. 
( Harper ) . Of the regular naval histories and treatises 
we have enough and perhaps to spare. But here is 
a book with a certain novelty of motif, material, and 
viewpoint to recommend it. Its spring and raison 
d'etre is frankly the profuse and curious illustrations. 
By describing these we can best characterize the 
work. The author is a notable connoisseur and col- 
lector of old prints and engravings dlusti'ative of sea 
manners and types and the social side of sailor life 
afloat and ashore. Collectively, they show the his- 
toric British mariner, as contemporary pictorial 
art, sentimental or humorous, jjatriotic or playful, 
mhrored him ; the hearty, breezy tribe of " Tom 
Bowlings," '' Ben Buntlines," " Sweet Williams," etc., 
of play, novel, and ballad. Some plates are roughly 
Hogarthian in their robust truth. Others are 
plaintively sentimental and tenderly quaint. More, 
perhaps, are of the rollicking order, showing with old- 
fashioned frankness the high jinks of Jack ashore 
with his " PoU " and not altogether " Lovely Nan." 
The " sweet little cherub who sits up aloft " has very 
evidently not thought it worth while to look out for 
the shore morals of " poor Jack." In fine, Com- 
mander Robinson's gallery of reproductions (ninety- 
five in all, with a pretty frontispiece in tints) is novel, 
entertaining, graphic, and not without serious illus- 
trative value. The text suitably and interestingly 
supplements the pictures, and is the result of much 
painstaking research through a mass of old plays, 
diaries, pamphlets, novels, ballads, that would stagger 
a less enthusiastic worker. The book is prepared 
and written con amove, and carries a whiff of the 
brine for the initiated reader. 



From Cicero and his " De Amicitia," 
SXSS!' t« Dr. King and his treatise on "The 

Laws of Friendship, Human and Di- 
vine" (Macmillan) there have been countless writers 
on this most beautiful ( or shoxdd one rather say next 
to the most beautiftd?) of relationships. It is one of 
the first articles in the creed of Oberlin's president, 
Dr. Henry Churchill King, that the prime purpose 
and highest end of life is the cultivation of friend- 
ship with God and man ; and this little book of his 
states the laws governing this friendship as they were 



formulated in the author's lectures at Haverford 
College, in the course known as the Haverford Li- 
brary Lectures. To Dr. King "the problem of 
friendship is the problem of life itself"; and the 
essentials of ti-ue friendship are, first, integrity and 
breadth and dejjth of personality ; second, deep com- 
munity of interests ; third, mutual self-manifestation 
and answering trust ; and, fourth, mutual self-giving. 
These fundamentals underlie all spu-itual intimacies, 
whether with God or man ; and the surest guides to 
the cultivation of these intimacies are the Beatitudes 
and the thirteenth chapter of First Corinthians. 
The highest services, the "two services of prime 
significance," that one friend can render another 
are thus described : " One may be, first of all, the 
man he ought to be, and lay daily the unconscious 
impress of a high and noble character upon liis 
friend ; and he may share with his friend his own 
best vision, the vision of those ideals and motives 
and personalities by which he himself most of all 
lives." And, near the end, the author inclines to 
think the single, all-inclusive counsel necessary is 
this : " Stay persistently in the presence of the best 
in the sphere in which you seek attainment. All 
the rest will take care of itself. Hear persistently 
the best in music. See persistently the best in art. 
Read persistently the best in literatm-e. Stay per- 
sistently in the presence of the best in character." 
Excellent advice, whether in a handbook to friend- 
ship or elsewhere. The author rightly emphasizes 
the importance of activities as compared with passiv- 
ities, as a means of growth. The book is inspiring 
and helpful. 

Mr. R. W. Neeser's " Statistical and 
iavaihulori. Clironological History of the United 

States Navy " (Macmillan) is a com- 
prehensive reference book of unusual merit, partic- 
ularly fitted to meet the needs of public libraries 
and students of naval history. Only a part of the 
entire work is published in the two volumes that 
have been recently issued. They, however, are com- 
plete in themselves and do not suffer by being 
detached from the succeeding volumes, which wUl 
require several years more for their preparation. 
The complete work is divided by the author into 
five parts, which are as follows : (1 ) Administration 
of Department, and events and dates of reference 
in United States Naval History ; (2) Engagments, 
expeditions, and captures of vessels of war; (3) 
Captures of merchantmen ; ( 4 ) A complete record 
of every vessel's service and fate ; and ( 5 ) Amer- 
ican Privateers, 1772-1862; the State Navies, 
1775-1783; and the Confederate States Navy, 
1861-1865. Volume I. is preliminary to the remain- 
ing volumes, and consists of a remarkably exhaus- 
tive bibliogi-aphy of the history of the American 
navy. It includes both manuscript and printed, both 
official and unofficial sources — in all 9284 entries. 
In Volume II., which contains Parts I., II., and III., 
of the work, is disclosed the author's unique method 
of treating naval history. He finds that it is possible 



330 



THE DIAL 



[May 16, 



to present many important naval facts by means of 
tables, showing at a glance the dates of engagements, 
the ships and commanders taking part in them, the 
rate, tonnage, and armament of ships, the time of 
action, the number of killed and wounded, and many 
other interesting items of information. Full refer- 
ences to authorities for every important naval event 
are given. While so mechanical a method of treat- 
ment has its defects, it does succeed in presenting 
all the fundamental facts. The author and publisher 
have united in producing exceptionally accurate and 
well-printed volumes. The indexes are full and form 
a useful feature of the work. 



Mr. John D. Rockefeller's serial 
So^'ire." ^^Vtevs of « Random Reminiscences 

of Men and Events " (Doubleday) 
are now; collected in book form, making a handy and 
attractive volume of somewhat less than two hun- 
dred pages. To him who regards material success 
as the goal of life, this collection of commercial 
experiences and business mc'ixims will be a book of 
value as coming from the pen of (in the publisher's 
words) " the greatest business genius and most 
efficient organizer this country has ever produced." 
But though the author is known the world over as a 
money-getter of unsurpassed ability, he says — and 
his words should be taken for not less than they are 
worth — "I know of nothing more despicable and 
pathetic than a man who devotes all the waking 
hours of the day to making money for money's 
sake." Mr. Rockefeller is known to cherish other 
interests, some even of an artistic nature, as his love 
of landscape gardening and tree-planting; and his 
donations to the cause of education have been more 
than regal. Referring to the alleged iniquities of 
Standard Oil methods of business, he maintains that 
if undue zeal has been shown in crushing competitive 
dealers, it has been " in violation of the expressed 
and known wishes of the company." Mr. Rocke- 
feller's chapters, simply and briefly written, make 
good reading, especially if read in connection with 
Miss Tarbell's memorable volume of rather different 
tone and complexion. 

The Mai-tin & Hoyt Co., Atlanta, have 
X%Zr begun the publication of a " Library 

of Southern Literature," a work plan- 
ned to fill fifteen volumes, of which the first two are 
now at hand. The plan of the " Warner Library " 
is rather closely followed, and such a work could 
hardly have a better model. Each author repre- 
sented is given a signed critical and biographical 
essay, which precedes the selected examples of his 
woi'k. Good writers have been secm-ed for these 
critical appraisements, and the list of their names, 
coupled with that of the editorial and advisory coun- 
cils, is of a natm'e to inspire confidence in the enter- 
prise. Like all subsci'iption works, this one is made 
" to sell," but it is fairly obvious that salability has 
not been the only end in view, and that ideals 
of intelligent writing and sound judgment have 



informed the entire plan. Such could hardly fail 
to be the case with an enterprise conducted by 
President Alderman, the late Joel Chandler Harris, 
and Professors Charles W. Kent, C. Alphonso 
Smith, Morgan Callaway, George A. Wauchope, and 
Franklin L. RUey. These men stand for the best 
scholai'ship of the South, and inspire confidence 
from the start. Someone has said that "when the 
South's literature becomes known, the history of 
American literatm-e will be re-written." We are not 
quite sure of this, but we doubt not that some rela- 
tive judgments will be revised, and the whole subject 
seen in truer perspective. The generous scale of 
this work saves it from too much scrappiness, and 
enables something like justice to be done to each 
author deemed worthy of inclusion. The two vol- 
umes now published exliibit foi'ty authors, which 
enables us to make a fair estimate of the total nmn- 
ber. The last two volmnes will be devoted to frag- 
mentary matter, a biographical dictionary, and an 
index. Among the authors now represented we note 
Mr. James Lane Allen, Washington Allston, J. J. 
Audubon, Benjamin P. Judah, Thomas H. Benton, 
William Byrd, Mr. George W. Cable, John C. Cal- 
houn, and Mr. Madison Cawein, to mention only 
fairly famous names. There are women also, — Miss 
Frances C Baylor, Mrs. Kate Chopin, and, by a 
somewhat liberal interpretation of geogi'aphy, Mrs. 
Amelia E. Barr and Mrs. Frances Hodgson Burnett. 
Each of the volumes before us has fom* illustrations, 
all but one being portraits. 

Do you believe in witches ? If not, 
Mr. Oliver Madox Hueffer assures 
you, in his " Book of Witches " (John 
McBride Co.), you belong to the world's educated 
minority — but do not on that account make the mis- 
take of supposing that the witch is extinct in the 
mind of man, like the dodo. You yourself believe 
in the Friday superstition, have been known to 
patronize a palmist, or refuse to sit down with thir- 
teen at table. Then don't be sm-prised to read in 
youi' newspaper that a woman was accused of witch- 
craft in the next county. A witch is almost as easy 
to credit as a flying machine, and she has contributed 
much to the contentment of credulous humanity, who 
could blame her for their misfortunes which now 
they must shoulder without the relief afforded by 
the old illusion. It is in such light vein that Mr. 
Hueffer approaches his subject — in a spirit of appre- 
ciation rather than of scientific calculation. Having 
proven to his own satisfaction that a revival of witch- 
craft is not impossible, he goes back to the good old 
days of romance and magic, describes a " Sabbath- 
general," explains ingeniously how the witch origin- 
ated and how she differed from the other rulers of 
the half-way worlds, depicts her official insignia, and 
gives a detailed account of her philtres, charms, and 
potions. There are also gruesome tales of witchcraft 
persecutions in the various countries of Europe. 
" The Witch in Fiction " makes an interesting study 
and " Some Witches of To-day " explains the domi' 



The witch 
and her magic. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



331 



nance of witchcraft in the Orient, besides repeating 
some of the author's not particularly significant 
experiences with reputed witches in Tuscany, South 
Carolina, and rural England. 

A possible -^ substantial volume bearing the 

author of the interesting title " Thomas PownaU, 
"Junius" letters. -^j^^Y^^ F.R.S., Governor of Massa- 
chusetts Bay, Author of the Letters of Junius," by 
Charles A. W. PownaU, comes to us from Messrs. 
Henry Stevens, Son, & Stiles, of London. Governor 
PownaU cannot be counted among the greater lumin- 
aries of eighteenth-century politics; nevertheless, 
the historians of that age must feel gi'ateful for this 
first adequate biography of a man who exercised, 
both by his personality and writings, great influence 
upon the men who controUed events during the early 
years of George III. Governor PownaU was born in 
1722, and foUowed his elder brother John into the 
colonial department of government. The time of 
his gi-eatest influence was during the period of the 
French and Indian War, when he was agent at large 
for the Board of Trade, and then Governor of Massa- 
chusetts. From the very first he became a student 
of colonial government, and his studies ended in the 
writing of his famous "Administration of the British 
Colonies," which passed through a number of editions. 
PownaU belonged to the party of WiUiam Pitt, and 
when his leader ceased to hold office, PownaU also 
was dropped from the government. During his sub- 
sequent parliamentary career his sympathies were 
with the opposition. In this large volume, written 
by one of Governor Pownall's descendants, we have 
the results of a careful study of aU avaUable material. 
It is unfortunate that the author shows little skiU in 
the art of narration, and allows himself to wander 
off into long disquisitions on colonial history and 
allied topics, which detract seriously from the value 
of his book. The argument to prove that Governor 
PownaU was the author of the " Letters of Junius " 
is ingenious, and would be conclusive if the style of 
Pownall's acknowledged writings was not so far re- 
moved from that of "Junius " as almost to preclude 
the possibility of a common authorship. 

A new cure for the misgovernment of 
American cities is always a matter for 
rejoicing. Mr. Horace E. Deming, 
in his preface to " The Government of American 
Cities" (Putnam), informs us that he has found 
such a cure in the application of the true principles 
of democracy, — the control of local affairs by the 
people of the localities, untrammeled by the nagging 
interference of state legislatures. The claim to nov- 
elty of viewpoint in approaching this vexed problem 
would meet with more ready acceptance had Pro- 
fessor Goodnow not published his "Municipal Home 
Rule" in 1895. And the further insistence which 
Mr. Deming lays on the separation of political from 
administrative functions and the exercise of central 
control over local affairs through administrative 
rather than legislative organs after the model of the 
English system, sounds strangely familiar to one ac- 



A new-old 
cure for civic 
misgovernment. 



quainted with Professor Goodnow's other writings on 
municipal affairs. In truth, the author, by the constant 
reiteration and elaboration of the famUiar and the 
obvious, has expanded a few sane and wholesome 
ideas into a volume of two hundred pages, infusing 
into the material more methodically set forth by 
Messrs. Fairlie and Goodnow a commendable zeal 
for civic improvement and an earnest appeal to good 
citizens to bestir themselves to accomplish the desired 
residt. An appendix of a hundred pages contains 
the Municipal Programme of the National Municipal 
League. The book offends even more in repeating 
its own ideas than in borrowing those of others. 
But in spite of these most obvious defects, the desir- 
abUity of a wider acceptation of the principles set 
forth and elaborated bids us welcome Mr. Deming's 
cooperation in the task of educating citizens for the 
more efficient administration of the public business. 

Anecdotes of Another book of jokes, strung together 
London manners on a slender thread of reminiscence 
and morals. ^nd history and philosophic reflec- 
tion, appears under the joint authorship of Messrs. 
Ralph NevUl and Charles Edward Jerningham. 
"Piccadilly to PaU MaU " (Dutton) is its rather 
attractive title, and views of St. James's Palace and 
the Empire Theatre furnish appropriate pictorial 
embellishment. An early page contains the follow- 
ing explanation of a curious social usage that may 
have puzzled others besides ourselves. "The cus- 
toms of Society," observes the writer, "often have 
queer origins. Some years ago the members of a 
somewhat inferior set took to shaking hands on a 
level with their chins, a mode copied from a Royal 
personage, who, suffering from an abscess under the 
arm, avoided the painful friction entaUed by shaking 
hands in the ordinary manner and resorted to a 
higher level. This was observed by some lesser 
lights, from whom the custom spread." Encom-ag- 
ing, if true, is the assertion that the pronunciation 
of the humbler classes has improved of late, and 
that false aspirations are disappearing. As a whole, 
the contents of the book are varied and entertaining, 
though not of uniform refinement. It wiU amuse 
the club idler and the hammock lounger, and prob- 
ably that is as much as its authors intended. 

A devoted missionary to "Egypt" 
tuZl7'a%hv. (««I^thern lUinois) teUs his life-story 

with all the charm and moving power 
of simple truth in a little volume prefaced by the 
Rev. Jenkin Lloyd Jones and also provided with a 
"Foreword " by the Rev. Robert Colly er. " Jasper 
Douthit's Story " (American Unitarian Association) 
is "the autobiography of a pioneer," a pioneer frail 
in body but mighty in soul ; and the modest account 
of his self-sacrificing labors in various good causes 
— anti-slavery, temperance, liberal religion, and a 
higher tone of morality generally — makes a book 
that wiU not soon be allowed to die. Like the 
martyred Lovejoy, Mr. Douthit had to encounter 
the fiercest opposition and the bitterest hatred in 
his anti-slavery work, and his life was in constant 



332 



THE DIAL 



[May 16, 



danger during his activity as a Federal recruiting 
officer. What he has accomplished for temperance 
and for enlightened religion in a district forbid- 
dingly opposed to such reforms is seen, even in his 
short and unpretentious narrative, to be something 
approaching the marvellous. Of his work at Lithia 
Springs, the scene of an increasingly successful 
Chautauqua movement, the reading public already 
knows something and wiU be glad to learn more. 
Appropriate portraits and views are scattered 
through the volume. 



BRIEFER MENTION. 



A handbook of Alphabets, under the title of " Gram- 
mar of Lettering" (Lippincott), proves upon examin- 
ation to be a Grammar indeed, attention being given 
almost exclusively to the practical construction of let- 
ters. It is thus a book for the sign-writer and student 
in Trade Schools, rather than for the art student and 
architect, who should be interested in the history and 
philology of the alphabet and of literal forms. Of the 
alphabets reproduced those founded upon the roman let- 
ters are most specifically treated. Of the gothic letters 
there is Uttle variety, and scarcely any originality exhib- 
ited. The book is by Andrew W. Lyons, of Edinburgh. 

An interesting side-light is thrown on Civil War times 
by the little book entitled " Abraham Lincoln and the 
London Punch " (Moffat, Yard & Co.), prepared by Mr. 
William S. Walsh. Fifty-four cartoons are reproduced 
with many verses and editorial comments, running from 
January, 1861, to the famous retraction and apology 
that followed the assassination. The changes in the 
public opinion to which " Punch " catered are accurately 
reflected. First we see sympathy with the North, a 
Lincoln of manly features appearing in the cartoons; 
then following Bull Run and the blockade pubhc opinion 
changed in favor of the South, and the pencil of Tenniel 
depicted the President as a repulsive and grotesque 
monster. 

It is now some sixteen years since the death of Dr. 
Richard Spruce, a botanist and botanical explorer of the 
first rank. Always in poor health and unequal to any 
sort of clerical work. Dr. Spruce left a mass of notes 
and manuscript, fragmentary and almost cryptic save 
to himself, which he had vainly hoped to convert into a 
journal, to be called " Notes of a Botanist on the Amazon 
and Andes." Now his friend, Mr. Alfred Russel 
Wallace, believing in the scientific value and literary 
interest of the journals, comes forward to edit them; 
and he has produced a two-volume work, which the 
Messrs. Macmillan publish with illustrations, many of 
them from Dr. Spruce's own drawings, and maps of the 
regions visited. The first quarter of the work Dr. 
Spruce had nearly ready for publication ; the rest com- 
prises journals, letters, printed or manuscript articles, 
and scattered notes. Mr. Wallace utiUzed only about 
one-third of the material in his hands, feeling that a 
longer work would lack general interest and be no more 
valuable to botanical readers. To the latter, but possi- 
bly not to the casual reader, it will be clear that Dr. 
Spruce's South American wanderings are of much 
interest to scientists in connection with his great work 
on the " Hepaticse of the Amazon and the Andes of Peru 
and Ecuador." 



IS'OTES. 



Mr. Sidney Lee's " Life of William Shakespeare " is 
published by the Macmillan Co. in a new edition, with 
a rewritten preface and some rather important additions 
to the text. 

Mr. W. G. Towler's work on " Socialism in Local 
Government," with an introduction by Captain H. M. 
Jessel, is now published in a second edition by the 
Macmillan Co. 

A second edition of Professor A. E. Kennelly's " Wire- 
less Telegraphy and Wireless Telephony " has just been 
published by Messrs. Moffat, Yard & Co. in their series 
of " Present Day Primers." 

Messrs. John W. Luce & Co. publish Oscar Wilde's 
" A Florentine Tragedy," left in a fragmentary state by 
the author, and completed by Mr. Thomas Sturge Moore 
by writing the opening scene. 

" Tales within Tales " is an adaptation from the 
fables of Pilpai, made by Sir Arthur N. WoUaston, and 
published by Messrs. E. P. Dutton & Co. as a volume in 
the " Romance of the East " series. 

The latest issue of "The University of Colorado 
Studies " includes, among other papers, a valuable essay 
on " The Character of the Flavian Literature, 69-117 
A.D.," by Professor F. B. R. Hellems. 

The Griffith & Rowland Press, Philadelphia, have 
just put forth Volume III. of Dr. Augustus Hopkins 
Strong's " Systematic Theology." This volume, entitled 
" The Doctrine of Salvation," completes the work. 

The Boston Book Co. sends us the " Annual Maga- 
zine Subject-Index " for 1908, edited by Mr. Frederick 
W. Faxon. It is the second annual issue of this pub- 
lication, and indexes one himdred and twenty periodicals. 

"On Track and Diamond" is a new volume in 
"Harper's Athletic Series," and reprints a baker's 
dozen of stories about races and games, the majority of 
them written by Mr. J. Conover and Mr. S. Scoville, Jr. 

The fifth annual meeting of the American Political 
Science Association was held in Washington during the 
holidays of last year, and the volume of its Proceedings, 
containing nearly a score of papers, is now published at 
the Waverly Press, Baltimore. 

Baedeker's "Greece" and "Central Italy and Rome" 
are issued in new editions (the fourth and the fifteenth 
respectively), and imported by the Messrs. Scribner. 
Both volumes are considerably revised, and provided 
with a number of new maps and plans. 

A volvune of " Elementary Experiments in Psychol- 
ogy," by Mr. Carl E. Seashore, is published by Messrs. 
Henry Holt & Co. The experiments are numerous, 
simple, and ingenious, requiring practically no apparatus, 
and fitted for the use of the individual student, even 
without the guidance of a teacher. 

"Banbury Cross Stories" and "Dick Whittington 
and Other Stories " are two small volumes in a new 
series published by the Charles E. Merrill Co. They 
are intended for supplementary reading-books in the 
lower grades, and are tastefully illustrated. Mr. Frank 
W. Howard is the editor of both volumes. 

A " One Year Course m English and American Liter- 
ature," by Mr. Benjamin A. Heydrick, is pubUshed by 
Messrs. Hinds, Noble, & Eldredge. The proportions 
are about half and half. By judicious omissions of 
unimportant names, this small volume is made less juice- 
less and more readable than might have been expected. 



1909.] 



THE DIAl. 



333 



The " Oxford Poets " now include Edgar Allan Poe, 
in a volume edited by Mr. R. Brimley Johnson, and 
published by Mr. Henry Frowde. To eke out the 
contents of what would otherwise have been a slender 
book, there have been added Poe's three prose essays on 
the poetic art, thus making a very effective presentation 
of his work, exclusive of fiction. 

The American Book Co. send us " Standard Songs 
and Choruses for High Schools," Compiled by Mr. 
W. F. MacConnell. There is much comparatively fresh 
material in this collection, and a larger proportion than 
usual of music that is really worth knowing. From the 
same house we have a " History of Illinois " for schools, 
the work of Messrs. L. E. Robinson and Irving Moore. 

Mr. Henry Frowde has published, under the editorial 
supervision of Professor Walter Raleigh, a reprint of a 
forgotten, or nine-tenths forgotten, novel of the early 
nineteenth century, entitled " The Heroine," by Eaton 
Stannard Barrett. A work that was compared in its 
time with " Tristram Shandy " and " Dan Quixote " is 
certainly worth some effort to rescue it from complete 
oblivion. 

Mr. L. D. Harvey's " Practical Arithmetic," in two 
volumes, is published by the American Book Co. The 
work is intended to supply the needs of the entire ele- 
mentary course of eight years. The same publishers 
send us " Famous Men of Modern Times," a book of 
biographies by Messrs. John H. Haaren and A. B. 
Poland. From Columbus to Gladstone is the fairly 
wide range of this reading-book. 

Mr. Gregory Wilenkin, a Russian author, has pre- 
pared, and Mr. E. J. Harrison has translated into 
English, a study of " The Political and Economic Organ- 
ization of Modern Japan." The object of the work is 
to " furnish the busy man of affairs with a handbook of 
convenient size which shall contain all the more essen- 
tial data, under the various headings, in a condensed 
bat lucid form." Messrs. Kelly & Walsh, Yokohama, 
are the publishers. 

" The Poetical Works of John Dryden," edited by 
Mr. George R. Noyes, is a new volume of the " Cam- 
bridge " poets published by the Houghton Mifflin Co. 
The dramas are not included, but about half of Dryden's 
critical essays will be found among the contents. The 
volume extends to over eleven hundred closely-printed 
two-columned pages, and has the introduction and notes 
always provided in this well-edited series. 

" Till Eulenspiegels Lustige Streiche," edited by Mr. 
Frederick Betz, is published by Messrs. D. C. Heath & 
Co., and offers a welcome variation from the usual run 
of elementary German texts. From Messrs. Henry Holt 
& Co. we have " Goethe in Italy," being extracts from 
the " Italienische Reise," edited by Professor A. B. 
Nichols, and a volume of simple " German Stories " by 
good modern writers (Auerbach, Scheffel), edited by 
Dr. George M. Baker. 

"Verse Satire in England before the Renaissance," 
by Dr. Samuel Marion Tucker, is a new volume in the 
English series of monographs published by Columbia 
University. In the Historical series we have a work by 
Dr. Michael M. Davis, Jr., entitled "Psychological 
Interpretations of Society." In the Johns Hopkins 
Historical series we have " The Development of the 
English Law of Conspiracy," by Mr. James Wallace 
Bryan. In the Historical series of West Virginia Uni- 
versity, we have the " Evolution of Seward's Mexican 
Policy," by Mr. James Morton Callahan. 



" Harper's Library of Living Thought " is the title of 
a new series of small books, three of which are now at 
hand. Dr. W. W. Flinders Petrie writes of " Personal 
Religion in Egypt before Christianity," Count Tolstoy 
of "The Teaching of Jesus " (translated by the Maudes), 
and Swinburne of " Three Plays of Shakespeare." The 
latter volume is a reprint of the three essays on " King 
Lear," " Othello," and " King Richard II.," originally 
published as magazine articles. 

Two psychological studies of exceptional interest are 
sent us in pamphlet form by Mr. Richard G. Badger. 
One of them is " An Experimental Study of Sleep," by 
Dr. Boris Sidis; the other is "My Life as a Dissociated 
Personality," and is the work of a woman who calls 
herself " B. C. A.," these letters standing for the three 
personalities which at different times were dominant in 
her conscious existence. She writes as a patient of Dr. 
Morton Prince, who contributes an introducti6n to her 
story. 

Mr. Elliot Stock sends as an " Index to Book Prices 
Current " for the decade 1897-1906, being the second 
decennial issue of this valuable publication. It makes 
a volume of over one hundred thousand entries, filling 
a thousand two-columned pages. Besides enabling its 
possessor to follow the ebb and flow of the prices of 
particular books, the work also supplies him with many 
special bibliographies, and with indexes of pseudonyms, 
editors, translators, and artists. For prices, of course, 
one must refer to the annual volumes whose contents 
are here summarized. Mr. A. Jaggard is the compiler. 
By the publication of the new edition of his " Read- 
ings on the Paradiso of Dante " the Hon. William 
Warren Vernon completes the task of presenting his 
serviceable commentary (based chiefly upon Benvenuto 
da Imola) to the public in a thoroughly revised form, 
and at a materially lowered price. Students of Dante 
owe a deep debt of gratitude to this editor for the work 
to which he has given the labors of so many years, and 
the six volumes of his " Readings " (including the two 
now at hand) constitute what is perhaps the most useful 
of all Dante manuals to be had in the English language. 
The Macmillan Co. are the publishers. 

Art students will welcome the advent of a new 
edition of Crowe and Cavalcaselle's " New History of 
Painting in Italy," imported by Messrs. E. P. Dutton 
& Co. For years this standard work has been out of 
print, and second-hand copies have been scarce and 
very costly; whereas no book written in the meantime 
has approached this one in value, for completeness, 
detail, and scientific criticism. The new edition is in 
three moderately priced volumes, amply illustrated in 
far more satisfactory fashion than was mechanically pos- 
sible forty-four years ago. The editor is Mr. Edward 
Hutton, whose notes, enclosed in brackets, voice such 
newly discovered facts or modern theories as seriously 
confute or worthily supplement the text, which is kept 
absolutely intact. 

On January 13 of the present year, the anniversary 
of the death of Edmimd Clarence Stedman, a memorial 
meeting was held by the friends of the poet at the 
Carnegie Lyceum in New York. The proceedings of 
that meeting are now published in pamphlet form at the 
De Vinne Press, and constitute a tender and touching 
tribute to a man whose generous kindliness endeared 
him to his fellows as few men have ever been endeared, 
and whose fortitude of soul, amid perplexities and adver- 
sities, made his character a shining example of manhood 



334 



THE DIAL 



[May 16, 



in the noblest sense. Addresses were made by Mr. 
R. W. Gilder, Mr. H. W. Mabie, Colonel W. C. Church, 
and Mr. R. U. Johnson. Letters were presented, in- 
cluding a peculiarly moving communication from Mr. 
William Winter, poems were read, and songs were smig, 
all expressive of the deepest love and gratitude — love 
for Stedman the man, and gratitude for his eminent 
services as a representative of American letters. 

The Department of English of Columbia University, 
acting on the suggestion of many friends of the late 
Professor Carpenter, has decided to found a memorial 
library to be named the George Rice Carpenter Memo- 
rial Library. In view of Professor Carpenter's long 
association with the University and of the high quality 
and widely diffused influence of his work, some memo- 
rial is deemed appropriate, and because of the nature 
of his work and character, so practical a form as a 
library is especially fitting. Professor Carpenter had, 
indeed, frequently suggested the desirability of a de- 
partmental library and special reading room for the use 
of graduate and undergraduate students in English, 
Comparative Literature, and allied subjects, and had 
gone so far as to gather together a few books of refer- 
ence in the rooms of the department. A nucleus for 
such a library has, therefore, already been formed, 
which will in time become a substantial and useful 
memorial. It is expected that the University will pro- 
vide a special room to serve as the permanent home of 
the library, which should include works of reference 
and files of journals of importance to students, and a 
large collection of standard works in English literature 
and allied subjects. A committee has been formed to 
take temporary charge of the memorial. Subscriptions 
and gifts of books may be addressed to Professor Ashley 
H. Thorndike, Columbia University. 

The Tauchnitz " Collection of British Authors," the 
publication of which began in 1841, now numbers four 
thousand volumes. The word " British " in the title 
has always been a misnomer, for American authors have 
figured in the collection from its earliest years, begin- 
ning with Cooper, Irving, and Hawthorne, and coming 
down to such contemporaries as Mr. Andrew Carnegie, 
Mr. Richard Harding Davis, and Mrs. Edith Wharton. 
No less than sixty American names are included in the 
Tauchnitz list, and the number of volumes runs into the 
hundreds. It has been the custom of the publishers to 
signahze the completion of every even thousand volumes 
added to the collection by what is designated as a 
" memorial volume," and in the case of the fourth thou- 
sand, " A Manual of American Literature," prepared by 
Mr. Theodore Stanton, in collaboration with several 
members of the faculty of Cornell University, has been 
published. This volume may be had, of course, in the 
regular Tauchnitz form, but it is also published for 
American readers by the Messrs. Putnam in a special 
edition. The chapters upon our Colonial and Revolu- 
tionary literature have been abridged by Mr. Stanton 
from the histories of the late Moses Coit Tyler; the 
remaining chapters are written by Messrs. Isaac M. 
Bentley, Clark S. Northup, Lane Cooper, and Elmer J. 
Bailey. Our nineteenth-century literature is classified 
under the seven heads of historians, novelists, poets, 
essayists and humorists, orators and divines, scientists, 
and periodicals. Each of these groups has a chapter of 
its own, giving an historical survey, and brief biographical 
and critical accounts of individual authors. The chap- 
ters are very compact, and contain stores of information, 
especially in the matters of titles and dates. 



List of Nbw Books. 

[TAe Jbllinving list, containing 93 titles, includes books 
received by The Dial since its last issue.] 

BIOGBAFHIT AND REMINISCENCES. 

A Sister of Prince Rupert : Elizabeth Princess Palatine and 
Abbess of Herford. By Elizabeth Godfrey. lUus. in photo- 
gravure, etc., large 8vo, pp. 362. John Lane Co. $4. net. 

The Kingr Who Never Reigrned: Being Memoirs upon 
Louis XVII. By Eckard and Naundorff, with Preface by 
Jules LeMaitre. and Introduction and Notes by Maurice 
Vitrac and Amould Galopin, to which is added Joseph 
Turquan's "New Light upon the Fate of Louis XVII." 
Illus. in photogravure, etc., large 8vo, pp. 359. John 
McBride Co. $3.50 net. 

Samuel Pepys : Administrator, Observer, Gossip. By E. 
Hallam Moorhouse. Illus., large 8vo, pp. 323. E. P. Dutton 
& Co. $3. net. 

A Life of William Shakespeare. By Sidney Lee. Revised 
edition ; illus., 12mo, pp. 496. Macmillan Co. $2.25 net. 

Cyrus Hall lyCcCormiok and the Reaper. By Reuben Gold 
Thwaites. Illus., 8vo. Madison, Wis.: State Historical 
Society of Wisconsin. 

GENERAL. LITERATURE. 

Richard to Minna Wagner: Letters to His First Wife. 
Trans., prefaced, etc., by William Ashton Ellis. In 2 vols., 
with portraits in photogravure, 8vo. Charles Scribner's 
Sons. $7. net. 

The Playhouse and the Play, and Other Addresses Concern- 
ing the Theatre and Democracy in America. By Percy 
Mackaye. 12mo, pp. 210. Macmillan Co. 11.25 net. 

Women Through the Ages. By Emil Reich. In 2 vols., 
illus. in photogravure, etc., 8vo. E. P. Dutton & Co. $7. net. 

A New Light on the Renaissance Displayed in Contem- 
porary Emblems. By Harold Bayley. Illus., large 8vo, 
pp. 270. E. P. Dutton & Co. |2. net. 

The Book of Witches. By Oliver Madox Hueffer. With 
frontispiece in colors, large 8vo, pp. 336. John McBride Co . 
12.50 net. 

The Oldest English Epic : Beowulf, Finnsburg, Waldere, 
Deor, Widsith, and the German Hildebrand. Trans, in the 
Original Metres, with Introductions and Notes, by Francis 
B. Gummere. 12mo. pp. 203. Macmillan Co. $1.10 net. 

The Minnesingers. By Jethro Bithell, M.A. Vol. I.. Trans- 
lations. Large 8vo, pp. 208. Longmans, Green, & Co. $2. 

In Re Shakespeare : Beeching vs. Greenwood, Rejoinder on 
Behalf of the Defendant. By G. G. Greenwood, M.P. 12mo, 
pp. 152. John Lane Co. $1. net. 

William Shakespeare, Player, Play maker, and Poet: A Reply 
to Mr. George Greenwood, M.P. By H. C. Beeching, D.Litt. 
12mo, pp. 104. John Lane Co. $1. net. 

Tales of the Caliphs. By Claud Field. 12mo, pp. 118. "Ro- 
mance of the East Series." E . P. Dutton & Co. $1. net. 

VERSE AND DRAMA. 

Artemision : Idylls and Songs. By Maurice Hewlett. 16mo, 

pp. 124. Charles Scribner's Sons. $1. net. 
An Englishman's Home : A Play in Three Acts. By Major 

Guy du Maurier, D.S.O. With frontispiece, 12mo, pp. 131. 

Harper & Brothers. $1.25. 
Poems of Progress, and New Thought Pastels. By Ella 

Wheeler Wilcox. With portrait. 12mo, pp. 177. W. B. 

Conkey Co. $1.25. 
Songrs from Sky Meadows : Poems of Nature and of Nature's 

Children. By Charles H. Crandall. 12mo, pp. 179. Outing 

Co. $l.net. 
A Book of Corpus Verses. By Julian James Cotton. With 

frontispiece, 16mo, pp. 48. Oxford: B. H. Blackwell Co. 

FICTION. 

Sebastian. By Frank Danby. 12mo,pp.408. Macmillan Co. $1.50. 
The Alternative. By George Barr McCutcheon ; illus. in color 

by Harrison Fisher. 12mo, pp. 120. Dodd, Mead & Co. $1.25. 
The Hand-Made Gentleman : A Tale of the Battles of Peace. 

By Irving Bacheller. With frontispiece, 12mo, pp. 332. 

Harper & Brothers. $1.50. 
The Other Side of the Door. By Lucia Chamberlain. Illus., 

12mo, pp. 277. Bobbs-Merrill Co. $1.50. 
Elusive Isabel. By Jacques Futrelle. Illus., 12mo, pp. 274. 

Bobbs-Merrill Co. $1.50. 
A Royal Ward. By Percy Brebner. Illus. in color, 12mo, 

pp. 343. Little, Brown, & Co. $1.50. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



335 



Beyond the Skyline. By Robert Aitken. 12mo, pp. 309. 

B. W. Huebsch. 
The Kule of Three : A Story of Pike's Peak. By Alma 

Martin Estabrook. Illus., 12mo, pp. 310. Small. Maynard 

&Co. 11.25. 
Hearts are Tmmps. By Alexander Otis. With frontispiece 

in color, 12mo, pp. 333. John McBrideCo. $1.50. 
Sidereway of Montana : A Story of To-day in Which the 

Hero is also the Villain. By William MacLeod Raine. 

Illus.. 12mo, pp. 318. G. W. Dillingham Co. $1.50. 
Cherub Devlne. By Sewell Ford. 12mo. pp. 395. Mitchell 

Kennerley. $1.50. 
A Gluarter to Four; or, The Secret of Fortune Island. By 

William Wallace Cook. Illus.. 12mo. pp. 317. G. W. Dill- 
ingham Co. $1.50. 
Mary of Hag-dala : A Tale of the First Century. By Harriette 

Gunn Roberson. 12mo, pp. 393. New York : Saalfield Pub- 
lishing Co. $1.50. 
The Full Glory of Diantha. By Mrs. Philip Verrill Mighels. 

12mo, pp. 432. Forbes & Co. $1.50. 
The Merry Widow: A Novel Founded on Franz Lehar's 

Viennese Opera. By Victor Leon and Leo Stein. Illus., 

12mo, pp. 331. G. W. Dillingham Co. $1.50. 
The Solitary Farm. By Fergus Hume. With frontispiece, 

12mo. pp. 313. G. W. Dillingham Co. $1.25. 
The Seven Who Were Hangred. By Leonid Andreyev; 

trans, from the Russian by Herman Bernstein. With front- 
ispiece, 12mo, pp. 190. J. S. Ogilvie Publishing Co. $1. 
Matt of the Waterfront. By Florence Martin Eastland. 

With frontispiece, 12mo. pp. 153. Jennings & Graham Co. 

60 cts net. 
A Gentleman from Mississippi : A Novel Founded on the 

Play of the Same Name. By William A. Brady and Jos. R. 

Grismer. Illus., 12mo, pp. 189. J. S. Ogilvie Publishing Co. 

50 cts. net. 

TRAVEL AND DESCRIPTION. 
A Summer in Touraine. By Frederic Lees ; illus. in color, 

etc., by Maxwell Armfleld. 8vo. pp. 318. A. C. McClurg & 

Co. $2.75 net. 
The Journal of John Mayne during a Tour of the Continent 

After the Fall of Napoleon. Edited by John Mayne CoUes. 

Illus., large 8vo, pp. 301. John Lane Co. $4. net. 
One Irish Summer. By William Eleroy Curtis. Illus.. large 

8vo, pp. 482. Duffield & Co. $3.50 net. 
We Two in West A&ica. By Decima Moore and Major F. G. 

Guggisberg, C.M.G. Illus., large 8vo, pp. 368. Charles 

Scribner's Sons. $3.50 net. 
The Playground of Europe. By Leslie Stephen. New edi- 
tion ; illus., 8vo, pp. 384. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $1.75 net. 
The United States, with Excursions to Mexico, Cuba, Porto 

Rico, and Alaska: Handbook for Travellers. By Karl 

Baedeker. Fourth revised edition; with maps and plans. 

16mo, pp. 724. Charles Scribner's Sons. $4.50 net. 

PUBLIC AFFAIRS. 

The Russian Army and the Japanese War : Being His- 
torical and Critical Comments on the Military Policy and 
Power of Russia and on the Campaign in the Far East. By 
General Kuropatkin ; trans, by Captain A. B. Lindsay and 
edited by Major E. D. Swinton. In 2 vols., illus. and with 
maps, large 8vo. E. P. Dutton & Co. $7.50 net. 

The Struggle for Imperial Unity : Recollections and Expe- 
riences. By George T. Denison. With portrait in photogra- 
vure, 8vo, pp. 422. Macmillan Co. $2.25 net. 

Railroad Promotion and Capitalization in the United 
States. By Frederick A. Cleveland, Ph.D., and Fred Wilbur 
Powell, A.M. l2mo, pp.368. Longmans, Green, & Co. $2. net. 

Our Naval War with France. By Gardner W. Allen. Illus., 
12mo, pp 323. Houghton Mifflin Co. $1.50 net. 

Principles of Politics, From the Viewpoint of the American 
Citizen. By Jeremiah W. Jenks, Ph.D. 12mo. pp. 187. 
New York : Columbia University Press. $1.50 net. 

ART AND ARCHITECTURE. 
Builders of Spain. By Clara Crawford Perkins. In 2 vols.. 

illus. in photogravure, etc., 8vo. Henry Holt & Co. $5. net. 
Ghirlandaio. By Gerald S. Davies. Illus. in photogravure, 

etc.. large 8vo, pp. 180. Charles Scribner's Sons. $4. net. 
French Cathedrals and Chateaux. By Clara Crawford 

Perkins. New edition; in 2 vols., illus. in photogravure, 

etc., 8vo. Henry Holt & Co. $5. net. 
Royal Palaces of Spain: A Historical and Descriptive 

Account of the Seven Principal Palaces of the Spanish 

Kings. By Albert F. Calvert. Illus., 12mo, pp. 271. "Spanish 

Series." John Lane Co. $1.50 net. 



PHILOSOPHY AND PSYCHOLOGY. 

Psychotherapy. By Hugo Miinsterberg. 12mo, pp. 401. 

Moffat, Yard & Co. $2. net. 
The Psychology of Thinking. By Irving Elgar Miller, Ph.D. 

12mo, pp. 303. Macmillan Co. $1.25 net. 
Valuation : Its Nature and Laws. By Wilbur MarshallUrban , 

Ph.D. Large 8vo, pp. 433. " Library of Philosophy." 

Macmillan Co. $2.75 net. 
Arithmetical Abilities and Some Factors Determining 

Them. By Cliff Winfield Stone, Ph.D. 8vo, pp. 99. 

"Columbia University Contributions to Education." New 

York : Teachers College, Columbia University. $1. 

NATURE. 
A Little Maryland Garden. By Helen Ashe Hays. Illus. in 

color, 12mo, pp. 201. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $1.75 net. 
Birds of the Boston Public Garden : A Study in Migration. 

By Horace Winslow Wright; with Introduction by Brad- 
ford Torrey. Illus., 16mo, pp. 238. Houghton Mifflin Co. 

$1. net. 

FOR THE YOUNG. 
Harper's Machinery Book for Boys. By Joseph H. Adams. 

Illus., 12mo, pp. 373. Harper & brothers. $1.75. 
Dave Porter and His Classmates ; or. For the Honor of 

Oak Hall. By Edward Stratemeyer. Illus., 12mo, pp. 308. 

" Dave Porter Series." Lothrop, Lee & Shepard Co. $1.25. 
The Lamb Shakespeare for the Young. New vols. : Romeo 

and Juliet; Macbeth. Each, illus., 12mo. Duffield & Co. 

Per vol.. 80 cts. net. 
Little Busy Bodies : The Life of Crickets, Ants, Bees, Beetles, 

and Other Busybodies. Illus., 12mo. pp. 182. Harper & 

Brothers. 75 cts. 

EDUCATION. 
History of Common School Education : An Outline Sketch. 

By Lewis F. Anderson, Ph.D. 12mo, pp. 307. Henry Holt 

&Co. 
Constructive Exercises in English. By Maude M. Frank. 

12mo, pp. 154. Longmans, Green, & Co. 
One Year Course in English and American Literature. 

By Benjamin A. Heydrich, A.M. Illus., 12mo, pp. 289. Hinds, 

Noble & Eldredge. 
An Introduction to Poetry for Students of English Liter- 
ature. By Raymond MacDonald Alden, Ph.D. 12mo, pp.371. 

Henry Holt & Co. $1.25 net. 
Dante Alighieri's I^a Divina Commedia. Edited and anno- 
tated by C. H.Grandgent. VoL I., Inferno. 12mo, pp.283. 

D. C. Heath & Co. $1.25 net. 
History of Illinois. By L. E. Robinson, A.M., and Irving 

Moore. Illus. and with map, 12mo, pp.288. American Book Co. 
The Body at Work. By Frances Gulich Jewett. Illus., 12mo, 

pp. 247. " Gulich Hygiene Series." Ginn & Co. 60 cts. 
Famous Men of Modem Times. ByJohnH. Haaren, LL.D.. 

and A. B. Poland. Ph.D. Illus., 12mo. pp. 352. American 

Book Co. 50 cts. net. 
PrMace du ' Cromw^ell.' By Victor Hugo ; edited by Edmond 

Wahl. With portrait. 16mo, pp. 139. Oxford University Press. 
Erstes Lesebuch. By Arnold Werner-Spanhoofd. 16mo, 

pp. 194. D. C. Heath & Co. 
La Princesse Lointaine. Par Edmond Rostand; edited by 

J. L. Borgerhoff. 16mo, pp. 161. D. C. Heath & Co. 40cts.net. 
Education : An Essay and Other Selections. By Ralph Waldo 

Emerson. 16mo, pp. 76. Houghton Mifflin Co. 35 cts. net. 
Fourth Grade School Reader. By Fanny E. Coe. Illus., 

12mo, pp. 360. American Book Co. 50 cts. net. 
Third Grade School Reader. By Fanny E. Coe. Illus., 

12rao, pp. 284. American Book Co. 40 cts. net. 
De Tooqueville's Voyage en Amerique. Edited by R. Clyde 

Ford, Ph.D. 16mo, pp. 121. D. C. Heath & Co. 40 cts. net. 
The Agricola of Tacitus. With Introduction by Duane Reed 

Stuart. With maps, 16mo. pp. 111. The Macmillan Co. 

40 cts. net. 
Goethe in Italy : Extracts from Goethe's Italianische Reise. 

Edited by A. B. Nichols. With frontispiece, 16mo, pp. 125. 

Henry Holt & Co. 35 cts. net. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Fifty Years of Darwinism : Modem Aspects of Evolution. 
Centennial Addresses in Honor of Charles Darwin before the 
American Association for the Advancement of Science, at 
Baltimore. January, 1909. Illus., large 8vo, pp. 274. Henry 
Holt & Co. $2. net. 

Our Plymouth Forefathers : The Real Founders of our 
Republic. By Charles Stedman Hanks. Illus., 12mo, pp. 339. 
Dana Estes & Co. $1.50. 



336 



THE DIAL 



[May 16, 



The Faith and Works of Christian Science. By the author 
of " C!onf essio Medici." 12mo, pp. 232. Macmillan Co. $1.25 net. 

Sanitation and Sanitary En^ineeringr. By William Paul 
Gerhard, C.E. 12mo, pp. 174. New York: William Paul 
Gerhard. $1.50. 

The Lost Tales of SCiletus. By Edward Bulwer Lytton, 
l2mo, pp. 219. New York : Sturgis & Walton Co. $1.25 net. 

Prooeedingrs of the American Political Science Associa- 
tion at its Fifth Annual Meeting, Held at Washington, D.C.. 
and Richmond, Va., Dec, 1908. Large 8vo, pp. 261. Balti- 
more, Md. : The Waverly Press. 

Hnman Nature in Sellingr Goods. By James H. Collins. 
16mo, pp. 93. Henry Altemus Co. 50 cts. 

Hakingr the Best of Things Series. First vols. : The Point 
of View ; A Talk on Relaxation ; Mental Hygiene in Every- 
day Living. By Alice K. Fallows. Each 16mo. A. C. McClurg 
& Co. Per vol., 35 cts. net. 



A New Volume in The Art of Life Series. 
Edwabd Howard Gbiggs, Editor. 

SELF-MEASUREMENT 

A Scale of Human Values with Directions for Personal Application 
By WILLIAM DE WITT HVDE, President of Bowdoin CoUege. 

At all bookstores. 50 cts net; postpaid, 55 cts. 
B. W. HUEBSCH PUBLISHER NEW YORY CITY 



THE ANNUAL 

SUMMER READING NUMBER 

of 

THE DIAL 

WILL BE PUBLISHED JUNE 1 

THE CONTENTS OF 
this special number 
will be devoted to 
reviews and descriptions 
of the season's best 
books for vacation and 
warm-weather reading. 

EVERY READER 
should secure a 
copy. The number will 
form a complete and 
authoritative guide to 
the books in this field 
most worth while — 
and will save much 
time and offer many 
valuable suggestions. 

THE DIAL COMPANY, CHICAGO 



The Home 
Poetry Book 

We have all been 
wanting so 

lonO* .^^^^ Edited by 

1V./1 1^ ,^^^^ FRANCIS F. BROWNE 

Editor "Poems of the Civil War," 
"Laurel Crowned Verse," «tc. Author 
"Everyday Life of Lincoln," etc., etc. 

"GOLDEN POEMS" contains more of everyone's 
favorites than any other collection at a popu - 
lar price, and has besides the very best or the 
many fine poems that have been written in 
the last few years. 

Other collections may contain more poems of owe 
kind or more by one author. 

"GOLDEN POEMS" (by British and American 
Authors) has 550 selections from 300 writers-, 
covering the whole range of English literature. 



"Golden Poems' 



"GOLDEN POEMS " is a fireside volume for the 
thousands of families who love poetry. It is 
meant for those who cannot afford all the col- 
lected works of their favorite poets— it offers 
the poems they like best, all in one volume. 

The selections in " GOLDEN POEMS " are classi- 
fied according to their subjects : By the Fire- 
side; Nature's Voices; Dreams and Fancies; 
Friendship and Sympathy; Love; Liberty and 
Patriotism; Battle Echoes; Humor; Pathos and 
Sorrow; The Better Life; Scattered Leaves. 

" GOLDEN POEMS," with its wide appeal, at- 
tractively printed and beautifully bound, 
makes an especially appropriate Christmas 
gift. 

In two styles binding, ornamental cloth and flex- 
ible leather. Of booksellers, or the publishers, 

A. C. McCLURG & CO., CHICAGO. 
Price, ^z.SO' 




1909.] 



THE DIAL 



337 



ROOK^^ ALL OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS SUPPLIED, 
L*\^yJi^^* no matter on what subject. Write us. We can get 
you any book ever published. Please state wants. Catalogue fiee. 
BAKER'S GREAT BOOK SHOP, 14-16 Bright St., BmMiMOBAM, Emo. 

F. M. HOIiLY 

Authors' and Publishers' Bepresentative 

Circulars sent upon request. 156 Filth Avenue. New York. 

Authors Seeking a Publisher 

Should communicate with 
the Cochrane Publishing: Co. 
450 Tribune Building, New 
York City 

Catalogues Issued Regulaely. 
Next one relates to Lincoln, 
Civil War, and Slavery. Sent Free. 

W. F. STOWE. 167 CUNTON AVE., KINGSTON, N. Y. 



RARE BOOKS! 



OUR LIBRARY SERVICE 

WE have recently supplemented our service to Libraries, by 
procuring Out-of-R:int and Scarce Books, and by importing 
English books. 

Our EDUCATIONAL CATALOGUE contains a full list 
of Supplementary Reading, indicating the grade to which each 
title is adapted. 

Our CLEARANCE CATALOGUE contains overstock at 
special prices, and an alphabetical arrangement by authors of all 
cheap editions of Recent Popular Fiction and Standard Library 
12moa in one list. 

Our LI BRAR Y CATALOGU E of 3500 approved titles, fol- 
lowing A. L. A. lines, is of great convenience to small libraries. 

Our MONTHLY BULLETIN notices promptly every new 
book of importance. 
These Catalogues are sent on request. Three notable features of 

our service are : promptness, thoroughness, and low prices, 

THE BAKER & TAYLOR CO. 

wholesale dealers in the books of all publisheks 
33 East Seventeenth Street, New York 



DOOK publishers and book journals are 
•"-^ alike sustained by a book public. The 
people who read book journals are the ones 
who buy books. Daily papers and miscel- 
laneous journals have miscellaneous read- 
ers, some of whom are bookish people. All 
the readers of a book journal are bookish 
people. The Dial is preeminently a book 
journal, published solely in the interests 
of the book class, — the literary and culti- 
vated class. 



nPHE DIAL is more generally consulted 
* and depended upon by Librarlans in 
making up orders for books than any 
other American critical journal; it circu- 
lates more widely among retaiIj book- 
sellers than any other journal of its class ; 
it is the accustomed literary guide and aid 
of thousands of private book-buyers, 
covering every section of the country. 



MANUSCRIPTS 
TYPEWRITTEN 



EXPERT SERVICE 

MODERATE FEES 
L. E. Swartz, 526 Newport, Chicago 



TVDCU/DITIIiir • Dramatic, Literary. 4 cents per hundred words. 
I irLnnillllU ■ References. M. S. Gilpatbic, 15C Fifth Ave., N. Y. 

"THE DOUBLE FORTUNE" 

By BERTHA LADD HOSKIN8 
A splendid and dramatic tale of travel and adventure, of 
absorbing mystery and strange experiences, of love and 
tragedy ; realistic and entertaining, breathing the spirit of the 
great emotion that is the essence of all books written for a 
permanent place on our shelves. The story vibrates with intense 
human interest and the descriptions are vivid and picturesque. 
Not a dull page from start to finish. Send for it at once. 
THE NEALE PUBLISHING CO., Washington, D. C. 



BOOKBINDING 

PLAIN AND ARTISTIC, IN ALL VARIETIES OF 
LEATHER 

HENRY BLACKWELL 

University Place and 10th Street, New York City 



STUDY and PRACTICE of FRENCH in Four Parts 

L. 0. BoNAME, Author and Publisher, 1930 Chestnut St., Philadelphia. 
WeU-graded series for Preparatory Schools and Colleges. No time 
wasted in superficial or meclianical work. French Text: Numerous 
exercises in conversation, translation, composition. Part I. ( 60 cts. ^ : 
Primary grade; thorough drill in Pronunciation. Part II. (90 cts.): 
Intermediate grade; Essentials of Grammar; 4th edition, revised, with 
Vocabulary; most carefully g^raded. Part III. {^l. 00) : Composition, 
Idioms, Syntax; meets requirements for admission to college. Fart IV. 
(35c. ) : handbook of Pronunciation for advanced grade ; concise and com- 
prehensive. Sent to teachers for examination, witfi a view to introduction. 



n^ 



IT IT 7r -ir Jir t; 



[t 



ANYBOOK 

advertised or 
mentioned in 
this issue may 
be hndjromj 

mROWKFS 

DooKsroKE 

The Fine Arts BuLLding 
'Michi^an'Blvd.^ Chicago 



M 



,M 



338 



THE DIAL 



[May 16, 



Indispensable Books for Every librsury 
at Less than One-third Published Price 

T TAVING secured the entire remaining stock of the original 
-'--■■ " Muses' Library," pubHshed by Charles Scribner's Sons 
in conjunction with Lawrence & Bullen of London, we are 
able to offer this well-known series at less than one-third the 
original price. The volumes are beautifully printed and bound, 
and fully edited by prominent English scholars. Each contains 
a portrait in photogravure. A list of the titles is given below. 



POEMS OF JOHN KEATS 

Edited by G. Thorn Drury, with 
an Introduction by Robert 
Bridges. 
Two volumes. 



' ' What was deepest in the mind of Keats was the love of loveliness for 
its own sake, the sense of its rightful and preeminent power ; and in the 
singleness of worship which he gave to Beauty, Keats is especially the 
ideal poet." — Stopford Brooke. 



POEMS OF THOMAS CAMPION 
Edited by A. H. Builen. 
One volume. 



' ' Few indeed are the poets who have handled our stubborn English 
language with such masterly deftness. So long as ' elegancy, facility, 
and golden cadence of poesy ' are admired, Campion's fame will be 
secure." — A. H. Bullen. 



POETRY OF GEORGE WITHER 
Edited by Frank Sidgwick. 
Two volumes. 



' ' The poems of Wither are distinguished by a hearty homeliness of 
manner and a plain moral speaking. He seems to have passed his life 
in one continual act of innocent self-pleasing." — Charles Lamb. 



POEMS OF WILUAM BROWNE 
OF TAVISTOCK 
Edited by Gordon Goodwine, 
with an Introduction by A. H. 
Bullen. 
Two volumes. 



" Browne is like Keats in being before all things an artist, he has the 
same intense pleasure in a fine line or a fine phrase for its own sake. . . . 
In his best passages — and they are not few — he will send to the listener 
wafts of pure and delightful music." — W. T. Arnold. 



POEMS OF SAMUEL TAYLOR 
COLERIDGE 

Edited by Richard Garnett. 
One volume. 



"Although the best poetical work of Coleridge is extremely small in 
bulk . . . yethispoetry at its best reaches the absolute limits of English 
verse as yet written." — George Saintsbury. 



POEMS OF HENRY VAUGHAN 
Edited by E. K. Chambers, with 
an Introduction by H. C. 
Beeching. 
Tw^o volumes. 



" Vaughan may occasionally out-Herbert Herbert in metaphors and 
emblems, but in spite of them, and even through them, it is easy to see 
that he has a passion for Nature for her own sake ; that he has observed 
her works ; that indeed the world is to him no less than a veil of the 
Eternal Spirit, whose presence may be felt in any, even the smallest, 
part." — H. C. Beeching. 



Reduced from $1.75 to 
50c. a Volume, Postpaid 



BROWNE'S BOOKSTORE 

THE FINE ARTS BUILDING 

MICHIGAN BLVD. CHICAGO 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



339 



JUST PUBLISHED 



Studies in Several Literatures 

By HARRY THURSTON PECK, Litt.D. 

Author of " The Personal Equasion," " What is Good English," etc. 



THE ODYSSEY 

ALCIPHRON 

MILTON 

THE LYRICS OF TENNYSON 

LONGFELLOW 

POE AS A STORY WRITER 

HAWTHORNE AND *'THE SCARLET LETTER" 

EMERSON 



CONTENTS 

THACKERAY AND "VANITY FAIR" 
ANTHONY TROLLOPE 
EMILE ZOLA 

TOLSTOI'S "ANNA KARENINA" 
ALPHONSE DAUDET'S MASTERPIECE 
THE DETECTIVE STORY 
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF THE PRINTED 
PAGE 

12mo, cloth. Net $1.20. 



DODD, MEAD & COMPANY, Publishers, NEW YORK 



FINE BOOKS RECENTLY IMPORTED 

Described in our Monthly Catalogrne — Uaroli Issue — 
FBEE on application. JOSEPH McDONOUGH CO., 

98 State Street. ALBANY, N. Y. (Established 1870.) 



\X7II 1 IMp WORKER wants literary work. Doctor of 
Vt ILil^Ii^va philosophy, encyclopedist, proofreader, 
translator six languages, typewriter. F. P. NOBLE, 1308 
BERWYN AVE., EDGEWATER, CHICAGO. ILL. 






Autograph 
Letters 


Of Celebrities Bought and Sold. 

Send for price lists. 

WALTER R. BENJAMIN, 

225 Fifth Ave., New York City. 

Pub. '"THE COLLECTOR," $1 a year. 







SEND FOR NEIV CATALOGUES 

OLD AND RARE NATURAL HISTORY, 
AMERICANA, Etc. 

FRANKLIN BOOKSHOP, 920 Walnut St., PHILADELPHIA 
SEND FOR OUR 

REMOVAL Sale Catalogue 

MANY GOOD BARGAINS LISTED IN STANDARD AUTHORS, 
REFERErCE BOOKS, AMERICANA, HISTORY, ETC. 

THE H. R. HUNTTING COMPANY 

SPRINGFIELD, MASS. 

LAST WORD ON THE CIVIL WAR 

Documentary History of Reconstruction 

"The most comprehensive and valuable work of its 
kind yet written." — The Dial. 

THE ARTHUR H. CLARK CO. , CLEVELAND, OHIO 



We Make a Specially of BOOKS and PAMPHLETS 



ON 



RAILROADS, CANALS, BANKING, AND FINANCE 

DIXIE BOOK SHOP 

Catalogue on application. 41 LIBERTY ST., NEW YORK 



C. J. PRICE 

1004 Walnut St., Philadelphia, Pa. 

IMPORTER OF CHOICE and RARE BOOKS 

FRENCH AND ENGLISH 

Invites the attention of Book-Lovers and those forming 
Fine Libraries to his collection of First and Choice Editions 
of Standard Authors, Americana, books illustrated by 
Cruikshank, Leech, and " Phiz," first editions of Dickens, 
Thackeray, Lever, Leigh Hunt, etc. Devoting his attention 
exclusively to the choicer class of books, and with experi- 
enced agents abroad, he is able to guarantee the prompt 
and efQcient execution of all orders. 

Frequent catalogues of Select Importations are issued 
and sent gratis on demand. 



THE NEW YORK BUREAU OF REVISION 

Established in 1880. LETTERS OF CRITICISM. EXPERT 
REVISION OF MSS. Advice as to publication. Address 
DR. TITUS M. COAN. 70 FIFTH AVE.. NEW YORK CITY 



U/IIIIAUD iCMI^IMCPn Publishers, Booksellers, 
iVILLIAm III JlNMIIO uUi stationers, and Printers 
861-853 SIXTH AVE., Cor. 48th St., NEW YORK 



FRENCH 

AND OXBRB 
VOEEION 

BOOKS 

Complete cata- 
logs on request. 



BEAD ODB 

ROMANS CHOISIS. 26 Titles. Paper 
60 cts., cloth 85 cts. per volume. CONTES 
CHOISIS. 24 Titles. Paper 25 cts., cloth 
40 cts. per volume. Masterpieces, pure, by well- 
known authors. Read extensively by classes; 
notes in English. List on application. 



340 



THE DIAL 



[May 16, 1909. 




HE 



INNER SHRINEn 



A NOVEL OF TODAT 

Once in a lifetime a brilliant star may flash across the sky, 
and it is interesting to note how quickly comes recognition and 
wide acclaim. 

With one accord readers have granted to "The Inner Shrine" 
those qualities which men have agreed to call great. Here, 
they say, is distinction, strength, and vigor, here is tender- 
ness, sweetness, crystal clearness, and that certainty of touch 
which marks the master. Whether the writer is already 
famous or not, this is what they say of this great work: 
THE NEW OBIiEANS TIMES-DEMOCBAT SATS : 

"A novel exciting more interest than any previous one for 
many a day. ... It is quite on the cards that in these 
early years of the twentieth century we have seen the 
dawn of a new novelist of unquestioned power." 
LILLIAN WHITIJfG WRITES FROM BOSTON: 

" Many of us are simply lying awake nights trying to con- 
jure up the author of ' The Inner Shrine,' which takes hold 
of one as no work of fiction has for unremembered years." 

Illustrated by Frank Craiff. Cloth, #1.50 



NEW BOOKS 



IS SHAKESPEARE DEAD? 

By Mark Twain. This new volume is quick with keen, poignant humor, pierced with vigilant 
wit — a book that in the Ruise of fun carries a message of real importance. It is a valuable con- 
trilDution to the literature of the subject — ^and it is written with all the discerning analysis and ruth- 
less logic of Mark Twain at his best and funniest. Some of the author's recollections of the Mississippi 
River are inimitable. Crown 8vo, Cloth, Gilt Top, Rough Edges Net, $1.25 

THE HAND-MADE GENTLEMAN 

By Irving Bacheller. This new novel follows Mr. Bacheller's favorite style, treating of rural 
types and abounding in local dialect, grim wit, and good-natured humor — better than anything 
he has done before. "The Hand-Made Gentleman" conceives a plan for combining railway lines, 
which he submits to Commodore Vanderbilt, and, his idea being approved, he has an interview 
with "a man of the name of Andrew Carnegie." And there is a wonderfully beautiful love story. 
Post Svo. Cloth Si. so 

KATRINE 

By Elinor Macartney Lane. In "Katrine" a new heroine has come into her own, the_ most 
beautiful and compelling figure that the author has given us. The romance opens amid historic 
surroundings in North Carolina, where Francis Ravenel meets Katrine, and idyllic scenes pass before 
the reader among the roses of the South. The action changes to Paris and an atmosphere of art 
and intrigue, and again to New York. "With Frontispiece. Post Svo, Cloth $1.5° 

JASON 

By Justus Miles Forman. It is not saying too much to state that it is the best story Mr.Forman 
has yet written. The scene is the Paris of to-day, and the story involves society characters in a plot 
which is as mysterious as a detective story. With a clever plot, a dashing narrative, and a chivalric 
love-interest, this is what men call a "ripping" story all the way through. Illxistrated. Post 
Svo, Cloth *i-So 

PETER— PETER 

By Maude Radford Warren. Illustrated by Rose O'Neill. It is as dainty, as light as a cream-puff, 
and sparkling as a brook. Peter loses his money, a considerable fortune, but not his wife; she adores 
him. Indeed, the two are almost in their honeymoon days. Their old, aristocratic families are 
upset over the change which drives them into rustic poverty. These two young people get rid of 
their big establishment and run away to a piece of country not far from town. Post Svo, Cloth, $1.50 



THE 



VEIL 



LADY IN THE WHITE 

Bv Rose O'Neill. With Illustrations by the Author. A novel of New York, beginning with the 
landing of the hero from Europe. He is seized with longing to have a look at the empty familv house 
on Stuyvesant Square, and is astonished to see coming out of it a young woman in a white veil. 
She asks him to call a cab, and he enters with her. From this point on the story never stops. The 
dialogue is full of Httle surprises, sparkling with wit and mirth. Post Svo, Cloth .... $1.50 




HARPER & BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS, NEW YORK 



] 



THE DIAL PRESS, FINE ARTS BUILDING, CHICAGO. 



SUMMER ^^DtmlSrtiMBER 



THET 







^ SEMI-MONTHLY JOURNAL OF 



FRANCIS F. BROWNE 



\Volume XLVI. ntTTnAm TTTISJT? 1 1 QOQ ioc<«. a copv-J Fink Arts Buildini 

/ iVo.552. UiliUAljU, dUi^-Ci 1, lyyy. $^. a year. I 203 Michigan Blvd. 



New Books of Importance Just Published 



THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF N. S. SHALER 

This rarely interesting life will take a place among the more notable American memoirs. Professor Shaler 

was a man of extraordinary personal qualities aside from his prominence in science and education. His 

fascinating recollections show him to be one of the most vivid of writers, and make a remarkable book. 

Illustrated. $4.00 net. Postage extra. 

THE PEOPLE AT PLAY By ROLLIN LYNDE HARTT 

A remarkable book presenting the sports and amusements of the masses with shrewd insight and a rich 
vein of humor. It is at once a contribution to sociology and a volume of delightful reading. 
Profusely Illustrated. $1.60 net. Postpaid $1.66. 

GAMBOLLING WITH GALATEA By CURTIS DUNHAM 

A rural comedy with an entirely new vein of humor and sentiment, presenting some interesting characters 
not all human. The story is told with a refinement and literary grace that will charm all readers. 
Illustrated in color by Oliver Herford. $1.20 net. Postpaid $1.36. 

EDUCATION IN THE FAR EAST By CHARLES F. THWING 

This is a very readable and interesting study of the relations of education and civilization in Japan, 
China, India, Korea, the Philippines, and Egypt. It is the result of an extended tour and a first-hand 
examination of the various conditions and educational systems. 

$1.60 net. Postpaid $1.66. 

CHOOSING A VOCATION By FRANK PARSONS 

One of the most practical contributions to social welfare work that has lately been published. The 
book gives explicit and clear directions for the handling of specific cases and problems of every sort. 

$1.00 net. Postpaid $1.10. 

THE ADVERTISEMENTS OF "THE SPECTATOR" By LAWRENCE LEWIS 

A unique study of the origins of the art of advertising, and a quaint and important source of information 
about ways and customs of England in the ea.rly 18th century. 

$2 net. Postage extra. 

ADRIFT ON AN ICE-PAN By WILFRED T. GRENFELL 

Among the world's stories of hazardous adventure, this true account of Dr. Qrenfell's wonderful escai)e 

from almost certain death off the Labrador coast is sure to take a prominent place. 

76 cents net. Postpaid 81 cents. 

CHARLES W. ELIOT, President of Harvard University, 1869-1909 ByEUGEN KUHNEMANN 

An account of President Eliot's work as the chief executive of Harvard University. The work is marked 
by the thoroughness of plan and detail that characterize the work of German scholars. 

$1.00 net. Postpaid, $1.10. 

IS IMMORTALITY DESIRABLE? By G. LOWES DICKINSON 

" This book presents both sides of the question, the belief in man's immortal soul — and the denial of 

it. . . . An essay, good to read, thoughtful, penetrating, beautiful in expression." — A!"an«as City Star. 

76 cents net. Postpaid, 81 cents. 

THE ETERNAL VALUES By HUGO MUNSTERBERG 

This book is written in the search for a new philosophy, for a new expression of the meaning of life and 
reality. It should appeal to every serious reader. 

$2.60 net. Postpaid $2.76. 
HAREMLIK By DEMETRA VAKA 

"A remarkable description of the life and manner of thinking of Turkish women. It is gratifying, par- 
ticularly now, to obtain a sympathetic view of the Turks, from which religious bias is wholly absent." 

$1.26 net. Postpaid $1.87. —New York Sun. 

ECONOMIC HERESIES By SIR NATHANIEL NATHAN 

This volume aims to present in a form free from technicalities the actual facts of modern economic 
phenomena as they are really seen and known to exist. 

$3.00 net. Postpaid $3.20. 



Boston Houghton Mifflin Company New York 



342 THE DIAL [Junel, 



SEASONABLE NEW BOOKS 
A SUMMER IN TOURAINE 

The Record of a Sojourn Among the Chateaux of the Loire 
By FREDERIC LEES 

nPHE banks of the Loire, Vienne, and Cher are here described as they appear to a leisurely 
and cultured traveller, who sees, as he passes along the river banks, and w^anders through 
the old chateaux, not the pageant of a summer only, but the whole pageant of the Renaissance 
in France. Mr. Lees, however, gives definite information for the present-day traveller who 
wishes to see the most of Touraine, as well as historic insight for the fireside traveller, who 
will find every notable chateau represented in his photographs. 

With twelve pages in full color, and many other full-page illustrations, and a map. 
Large 8vo. $2.75 net. By mail $2.92. 

THE SUMMER GARDEN OF PLEASURE 

By MRS. STEPHEN BATSON 

Author of " A Concise Handbook of Garden Flowers." 
IV/f RS. BATSON is not only a wise and experienced gardener but has an eye for color and 
a memory for those parts of literature which deal with the garden. Consequently her 
readers will learn not alone how to keep a garden in bloom from early to late summer, but 
how to make its flowering a synthetic picture that charms as a whole and not merely in 
patches ; while the beauties and consolations of the garden as seen by Pliny, Bacon, and the 
moderns are recalled to inspire alike the gardener and the reader in the city. 
With 36 illustrations in color by Osmund Pittman. Index. Large 8vo. $3.50 net. By mail, $3.66. 

TJVO BOOKS FOR SUMMER DIVERSION 

BILL TRUETELL THE DELAFIELD AFFAIR 

A Story of Theatrical Life By FLORENCE FINCH KELLY 

By GEORGE H. BRENNAN T^HE gray-green plateau of New Mexico 

TpHE story is told in easy colloquial fashion which she has chosen as the scene of her 

-■- with an easy acceptance of human nature "o^el is drawn from first hand acquaintance. 

at its best and worst, finest and meanest, and ^^^e people of these parched plains are moved 

with culminations of absurd situation which ^y fierce passions; they love and hate with 

would bring a smile to the face of Medusa, equal intensity. Long nourished revenge and 

It is good, wholesome fun all the way through attempts at the murder of an enemy by respect- 

and it gives an insight into theatrical life that ^^^^ ranchmen and bankers do not seem so 

one is not likely to find elsewhere. It is a Palpably incredible as they would in a more 

racy excerpt from life and a rattling exposition sophisticated society. The story moves with 

of character. — St. Louis Mirror. ^^^ rush of a reckless ride across the mesa to 

With frontispiece in colors, and numerous text '^^ inevitable end. - The Independent. 

and full-page drawings by James Montgomery With four illustrations in full color by Maynard 

Flagg. Large J2mo. $1.50. Dixon. Large 12mo. $1.50. 

A. C. McCLURG &• CO. PUBLISHERS CHICAGO 



1909] THE DIAL 343 



FICTION FOR SUMMER READING 



SPECIAL MESSENGER 

By Robert W. Chambers 4th Large Edition 

Author of" THE FIGHTING CHANCE," " THU FIRING LINE," "lOLE," etc. 
The romantic love story of a woman spy in the Civil War, told with all the vividness, skill, and finish of this most 
brilliant of our popular writers. Cover inlay by Harrison Fisher, Many illustrations. 12mo. Cloth, $1.50. 

THE FASHIONABLE ADVENTURES OF JOSHUA CRAIG 

By David Oraham Phillips ad Large Edition 

Author of "THE SECOND GENERATION," "OLD WIVES FOR NEW," etc. 
A bold picture satirizing society life in Washing^n, showing the native strength of an impetuous Westerner in 
victorious conflict with the trivialities of social conventions. Illustrated by A. B. Wenzell. 12mo. Cloth, $1.50. 

THE MAN WITHOUT A SHADOW 

By Oliver Cabot 8d Edition 

The search for his own identity, told by a man who has lost all clue to his personality — absorbing mystery, thrilling 
adventure, chivalrous love. Illustrated. 12mo. Cloth, $1.50. 

A KING IN KHAKI 

By Henry Kitchell Webster 3d Edition 

Author of " THE WHISPERING MAN," " CALUMET K," etc. 
A romance of love, adventure, and high finance in the West Indies. A refreshing, thoroughly American hero, 
fighting against odds for love and honor. Illustrated by O^Neill. 12too. Cloth, $1.50. 

OUR VILLAGE 

By Joseph C. Lincoln 2d Edition 

Author of " CY WHITTAKER'S PLACE," " CAP'N ERI," etc. 
"The people are the same charming and lovable Cape Codders that he has drawn so well." — JV^ew York Sun. 

Decorated cover, many illustrations, printed throughout on toned paper. 12mo. Cloth, $1.50 net. 

A YEAR OUT OF LIFE 

By Mary E. Waller 2d Edition 

Author of" THE WOOD-CARVER OF 'LYMPU8." 
The romance of an American girl travelling in Germany and a distinguished German author. Written in the 
charming style that has ever marked Miss Waller's work. Decorated cover. 12mo. Cloth, $1.50. 

THE LADY WITHOUT JEWELS 

By Arthur Goodrich 

Author of " GLEAM O' DA WN," " THE BALANCE OF POWER." etc. 
Rare humor, genial satire, delightful sentiment, charming comedy, and just enough dramatic thrill to make it 
perfect summer reading. Cover inlay and illustrations. 12mo. Cloth, $1.50. 

READY IN JUNE 

THE TOLL OF THE SEA 

By Roy Norton 

Mr. Norton is almost a modern Jules Verne, and this story may be relied upon to hold the reader's attention by its 
mysterious events, painted on a broad canvas, and by the magnificent spirit of strength and patriotism with which it 
is pervaded. Decorated cover and illustrations. 12mo. Cloth, $1.50. 

THE MASTER BUILDERS 

By James Edmund Dunning 

The battle between two strong though dissimilar characters, with the love of a fascinating woman as the prize for 
the victor. The scene is a Maine shipyard where there is being constructed a magnificent cruiser, which is coveted 
by a foreign power hostUe to the United States. Decorated cover and illustrations. 12jno. Cloth, $1.50. 



PUBLISHED BY D. APPLETON & COMPANY NEW YORK CITY 



344 



THE DIAL 



[June 1, 



CROWELL'S MODERN LANGUAGE SERIES 



FIRST LESSONS IN FRENCH EASY GERMAN STORIES 



176 pagres, with Vocabulary. 

Adapted from P. BANDERET and P. REINHARD by 
GRACE SANDWITH 
"A text-book which, we feel sure, is destined to secure a 
considerable measure of popularity among teachers and 
learners of French. We have read through a large part of 
the work, and have been greatly impressed with the care 
and thought expended in selecting the matter and deter- 
mining the sequence of the lessons." — School Mac/azine. 
Cloth. Net 60 cents. 



DEUTSCHE GEDICHTE 

For Beginners, with English Notes. 
Edited by W. P. CHALMERS, Ph.D. 

" This book should prove most useful. The poems are well 
selected, and the notes are short and to the point. The book 
seems to have been edited with much care." — Modern Lan- 
guage Teaching. 

127 pages. Cloth. Net 40 cents. 



98 pages, with Vocabulary and Notes. 

By HEDWIG LEVI. Edited by LUISE DELP. 

" Contains ten pleasant stories suitable for junior pupils 
and well adapted for reading in class. They are fairly easy, 
and written in smooth conversational German. The notes 
give all the necessary help, and the vocabulary is full and 
reliable."— <Sfc7iooJ Journal. 

Cloth. Net 40 cents. 



DAS ROTHKAPPCHEN 

A Play in Five Scenes, with Songs and Music. 

By MATILDE REICHENBACH. 

"A charming little arrangement of the Red Riding Hood 
story* which cannot fail to attract pupils." 

27 pages. Cloth. Net 26 cents. 



TEACHERS ARE REQUESTED TO SEND FOR SAMPLE VOLUMES 

THOMAS Y. CROWELL & CO., 426-428 W. BROADWAY, NEW YORK 







WHAT GOVERNOR HAY OF WASHINGTON 

writes to HAROLD MORTON KRAMER 
Author of 

THE CHRYSALIS 

I find that when once begun it will be 
read to the end without stopping. I think 
you have been particularly happy in laying 
the scene of your story in the Palouse 
Country, in the " hills where the bunch- 
grass waves." The picturesque days of 
the West are passing, the great silences 
are disturbed, and the great spaces are 
being filled, but here is an inexhaustible 
fund for romance and story which writers 
of fiction have as yet hardly touched. 

AT ALL BOOKSTORES $1.50 

LOTHROP, LEE AND SHEPARD GO., Boston 


A question of taste 

You would rather listen to the 
Kneisel Quartette than to a brass 
band, wouldn't you ? The same re- 
finement of taste prompts you to read 
an artistic book of short stories in 
preference to a swashbuckler novel. 

BEYOND THE SKYLINE 

By ROBERT AITKEN 

is a fascinating, entertaining, and 
satisfying volume of short stories 
that are, as the London Daily Tele- 
graph says, "well worth re-reading 
and preserving." 

Buy the book or borrow it at your 
library, but don't fail to read it. 

$1.50 postpaid. 

B. W. HUEBSCH, Publisher, 225 Fifth ave., New Yorl( 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



345 



LIPPINCOTT'S SUMMER NOVELS 



JUST PUBLISHED — A NEIV MODERN ROMANCE 

By the author of '' The Colonel of the Red Hu{{ars" and " The Princess Debra" 



THE WOMAN IN QUESTION 

By JOHN REED SCOTT 

" The Woman in Question " is a romance, 
but not of Valeria nor mediaeval England. 
Mr. Scott has remained home in Amer- 
ica, and the scenes are laid in the Eastern 
United States. The story is distinctly 
modern in tone and theme, and centers 
in and around Fairlawn Hall, an old 
mansion with a marvellous garden, lying 
on the outskirts of Egerton, where the 
new master has come with a party of 
friends — to find mystery, misfortune, 
and love awaiting him. Mr. Scott shows 
steady improvement in each succeeding 
novel, and he has planned this latest 
story well, filling it with many surprises 
and dramatic moments. 




Three full-page illustrations In color by 

Clarence F. Underwood. 

12mo. Decorated Cloth, $1.50. 



NEW APRIL FICTION 



c 



The Winning Chance 

By Elizabeth Dejeans. In "The Winning Chance" we know we 
have a big American novel — we won't say the, although we almost 
feel like doing so — dealing with a modern problem of such vital interest 
to all, it cannot help but win its way to great popularity. The story is 
strikingly original in theme and treatment, and it pictures as never before the 
big problem of the American Girl who enters upon a business career. Front- 
ispiece in color by Gayle P. Hoskins. izmo. Ornamental cloth. $1.50. 



Love's Privilege 

^ By Stella M. During, author of "Disinherited." 
^^ This novel recently won a thousand-dollar prize 
in a leading Chicago newspaper competition, and 
was pronounced as perhaps the most baffling mys- 
tery story of recent years. The plot is concerned 
with a murder which absolutely defies solution. 
Illustrated in color by Frank H. Desch. i2mo. 
Cloth, with colored inset, $1.50. 



Lanier of the Cavalry 

^T By General Charles King, who stands sponsor 
^^ for many fine army stories, but it is doubtful if 
he has ever penned a more stirring one than this, his 
latest romance. The plot is laid at a frontier fort 
where witty women and brave men are snowed in for 
months, which isolation is to some extent accountable 
for the remarkable happenings. Three full-page 
illustrations by Frank McKeman. i2mo. Decor- 
ated cloth, $1.25. Second Edition. 



Publishers 



J. B. LIPPINCOTT COMPANY 



Philadelphia 



346 



THE DIAL 



[June 1, 



SPRING BOOKS 

THE BAKER & TAYLOR CO. "''■ ''^i^^^^"c^^'^'' 



Clarence F. Birdseye 

THE REORGANIZATION OF OUR COLLEGES 

8vo. 425 pages. Price, net, $1.75. 

Henry W. Elson A CHILD'S GUIDE TO AMERICAN HISTORY 

12mo. 400 pages. Price, net, $1.25. 

William Somerset Maugham THE EXPLORER 

12mo. 300 pages. Frontispiece in color. Second edition. 

Parabellum BANZAI! 

12ino. 2 illustrations and a map. Price, $1.50. 

Paramananda, Swami VEDANTA IN PRACTICE 

140 pages. Price, net, $1.00. 

Arthur Kingsley Porter MEDIEVAL ARCHITECTURE 

4to. 2 vols. Cloth. 1000 pages. Price, net, per set, $15.00. 

Juliet Wilbor Tompkins OPEN HOUSE 

12mo. 276 pages. Frontispiece in color. Price, $1.50. 

Daniel Gregory Mason 

THE ORCHESTRAL INSTRUMENTS AND WHAT THEY DO 

12mo. 150 pages. 24 illustrations. Price, net, $1.00. 



^r -^^ '^T IT — TT- 



-M 



ANY BOOK I 

advertised or 
mentioned in 
this issue mmj 
he hadfromj 

CmOWHFS 
DOOKSTORE 



The Fine Arts Hutlding 
T^ichi^an'Blvd.y Chicaqo 

'^ "^T -^T -^T ZT ir 



^M 



OF INTEREST 
to LIBRARIANS 

"1 T /"E are now handling a larger per- 
' ' centage of orders from Public 
Libraries, School and College 
Libraries, than any other dealer in 
the entire country. This is because 
our book stock, covering all classes 
and grades of books, is more com- 
plete than that of any other book- 
seller in the United States, enabling 
us to make full and prompt ship- 
ments. Also, because we have a well 
equipped department looking after 
this special branch of the business. 

A. C. McCLURG & CO. 

UBRARY DEPARTMENT CHICAGO 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



347 



FROM DUFFIELD & COMPANY'S SPRING LiST 



— --:.i 




IMPORTANT NEW BOOKS 
H. C. Chatfield-Taylor " FAME'S PATHWAY" 

"A story exquisitely and poetically told; and the book follows so closely 
the facts of Moli^re's career as to be practically a biography of his early 
dramatic experiences set in the vivid form of fiction. As a picture of the 
stage of Moli^re's period the novel is a masterly one." — Baltimore Su7i. 
Pictures by " Job." $1.60. 



H. Handel Richardson 



"MAURICE GUEST 



»» 




" Season by season, week by week, we live through Maurice Guest's two 

years in Leipzig, till we know, almost as well as he does, its romantically 

homely streets, its comfortably sylvan parks, its river gay with skaters, its chattering crowds 

of music students of all nationalities. ..." — The Nation, New York. $1.60. 

Helen Mackay "HOUSES OF GLASS" 

stories and Sketches of Paris, illustrated by E. F. Folsom. A new book in paper covers, Euro- 
pean fashion. 

" They are all better than the average of De Maupassant, and some of them press his best very 
close. They smack of genius." — Waltbb Littlkfikld in Chicago Record-Herald. 

$1.00 net; by mail, $1.06. 

" Letters of Mrs. James G. Blaine " Edited by habbiet s. blaine beale. 

" One of the most interesting collections of American letters that have appeared in many years."— C/itcacro Tribune. 

2 vols., cloth, grilt top, boxed. $4.00 net ; by post, $4,16. 



Fourth Edition 

" Tono-Bungay " in London is being received with an almost unanimous chorus of praise, 
writes of it in the Dailv Telegraph in the following ecstatic terms: 'We think that 



Fourth Edition 

Mr. W. L. Courtney 



" TONO-BUNGAY " 



will prove to be Mr. H. G. Wells's " David Copperfleld." . . . One of the most significant novels of modern times, 
one of the sincerest and most unflinching analyses of the dangers and perils of our contemporary life that any writer 
has had the courage to submit to his own generation. Mr. Wells has certainly done nothing to approach this book, 
both for courage and conviction.' — Boston Evening Transcript. $1.60 postpaid. 



THE MEDIEVAL LIBRARY 
" The Book of the Divine Consolation of St. Angela Da Foligno " 

Translated from the Italian by Maby G. Steegmann, with an Introduction ; illustrated reproductions of the wood- 
cuts of the original edition, Genoa, 1536. 

" Elarly English Romances of Friendship ** 

Edited, in modern English, with Introduction and Notes, by Edith Rickebt. Illustrated by photogravures after 
illuminations in contemporary MSS. Brown pigskin, antique clasps. $2.00 net ; by post, $2.08. 



William Eleroy Curti. "ONE IRISH SUMMER" 

Sketches and descriptions of Ireland and the Irish ; an excellent account of Ireland as it is to-day. Illustrated 
from 64 photographs. $3.60 net ; postage 10 cents. 

The Lamb Shakespeare for the Young " A NIGHT WITH SHAKESPEARE " 

A charming programme for school entertainments and teachers. 

Recent additions to The Lamb Shakespeare (Charles and Mary Lamb's prose, with the famous passages set in) 

are " MACBETH " and " ROMEO AND JULIET." Lieather, $1.00 ; cloth, 80 cents. 

Hutchin. Hapgood "AN ANARCHIST WOMAN " 

A remarkable sociological study, made from life. $1.26 net ; postage 10 cents. 

Elinor Glyn'. new book " ELIZABETH VISITS AMERICA " Cloth. 12mo. $1.50. 

AT ALL BOOKSELLERS OR FROM THE PUBLISHERS 




DUFFIELD 

aewESTSTH'sr 




COMBW 

NEW YORK 



848 



THE DIAL 



[June 1, 



ItlL LUlVlEii Our Times 

By EDWARD DOYLE, author of "The Haunted Temple," etc. 
176 pagres. Price, $1.26. 

The work receives its title from the coincidence of the stu- 
dents' revolt with the discovery of a new comet by the president 
of the college, and the theory, announced playfully by Paul 
Gardiner, but taken seriously by the flattered astronomer, that 
not only the college disorder but all terrestrial disturbances 
may be traced to a comet origin. 

The work is called " A Play of Our Times " because its char- 
acters, either unwittingly or with design, feature forth many of 
the social, political and intellectual characteristics of the period. 

" Delightful and unique, but requiring a select audience, such 

as might be provided if put on by a College dramatic society." 

— Report of The Actors' Society of America. 

" It deserves hearty recognition as a step in the right direc- 
tion out of lucubrated visions into at least a near reality. Mr. 
Doyle is called the blind poet, but his mind has eyes for some- 
thing which others miss." — iV. Y. Times Saturday Review. 

" It is quite a pleasant book for a spare hour." 

— Berkeley (Cal.) Independent. 

ALL BOOKSELLERS 

RICHARD G. BADGER, BOSTON 



ENGLISH PROSE 

JUST PUBLISHED 

By JOHN MATTHEWS MANLY 

Professor and Head of the Department of English in 
the University of Chicago 

A companion volume to Manly's "English Poetry." 

The only anthology combining comprehensiveness with 

attractive and substantial form at a reasonable price. 

4to. Cloth, xix+544 pages. 

List price, $1.50. Mailing price, $1.70. 

GINN AND COMPANY 

BOSTON NEW YORK CHICAGO LONDON 



SEND FOR NEfV CATALOGUES 

OLD AND RARE NATURAL HISTORY, 
AMERICANA, Etc. 

FRANKLIN BOOKSHOP, 920 Walnut St., PHILADELPHIA 
SEND FOR OUR 

Removal Sale Catalogue 

MANY GOOD BARGAINS LISTED IN STANDARD AUTHORS, 
REFERErCE BOOKS, AMERICANA, HISTORY, ETC. 

THE H. R. HUNTTING COMPANY 

SPRINGFIELD, MASS. 

" The readable qualities of the 

Historic Highways of America 

volumes which give them the charm of story-telling is 
coupled with historical accuracy which make them, the 
standard works on the subjects covered." — The Chautauquan. 

THE ARTHUR H, CLARK CO., CLEVELAND, OHIO 



Wll I ING WORKER wants literary work. Doctor of 
"**^*^**'^~* philosophy, encyclopedist, proofreader, 
translator six languages, typewriter. F. P. NOBLE, 1308 
BERWYN AVE., EDGEWATER, CHICAGO, ILL. 



Autograph 
Letters 



Of Celebrities Bought and Sold. 

Send for price lists. 

WALTER R. BENJAMIN, 

225 Fifth Ave.. New York City. 

Pub. " THE COLLECTOR," $1 a year. 



N. B.-LIBRARIANS AND BOOKSELLERS 

RECENTLY ISSUED 

"SCIENTIFIC ASPECTS OF LUTHER 

BURBANK'S WORKS" 

By David Stakr Jordan and Vernon L. Kellogg. 
Octavo, illustrated. $1.75 net, postage 10 cts. 

GEORGE STERLING'S POEMS 

A WINE OF WIZARDRY and Other Verses 

12mo, cloth. $1.25 net. 

THE TESTIMONY OF THE SUNS and Other 
Verses. 'Sd Edition. 12mo, cloth. $1.25 net. 



PUBLISHER 



A. M. 

UNION SQUARE 



ROBERTSON 

SAN FRANCISCO 



We Make a Specialty of BOOKS and PAMPHLETS 

ON 

RAILROADS, CANALS, BANKING, AND FINANCE 

DIXIE BOOK SHOP 

Catalogue on application. 41 LIBERTY ST., NEW YORK 



C. J. PRICE 

1004 Walnut St., Philadelphia, Pa. 

IMPORTER OF CHOICE AND RARE BOOKS 

FRENCH AND ENGLISH 

Invites the attention of Book-Lovers and those forming 
Fine Libraries to his collection of First and Choice Editions 
of Standard Authors, Americana, books illustrated by 
Cruikshank, Leech, and " Phiz," first editions of Dickens, 
Thackeray, Lever, Leigh Hunt, etc. Devoting his attention 
exclusively to the choicer class of books, and with experi- 
enced agents abroad, he is able to guarantee the prompt 
and efficient execution of all orders. 

Frequent catalogues of Select Importations are issued 
and sent gratis on demand. 



THE NEW YORK BUREAU OF REVISION 

Established in 1880. LETTERS OF CRITICISM. EXPERT 
REVISION OF MSS. Advice as to publication. Address 
DR. TITUS M. COAN, 70 FIFTH AVE., NEW YORK CITY 



WILLIAM Ri JENKINS UUi StatlonVrl', and printers 
851-853 SIXTH AVE., Cor. 48th St., NEW YORK 

FRENCH 

AND OTHBB 
FOBEIOK 

BOOKS 

Complete cata- 
logs on request. 



READ otra 
ROMANS CHOISIS. 26 Titles. Paper 
60 eta., cloth 85 cts. per volume. CONTES 
CHOISIS. 24 Titles. Paper 25 cts., cloth 
40 cts. per volume. Masterpieces, pure, by well- 
known authors. Read eitenslvelj' by classes; 
notes in English. List on application. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



349 



FROM DUTTON'S SPRING LIST 



The Russian Army and the Japanese War 

The Military Memoirs of General Kuropatkin 

Translated by Captain A. B. LINDSAY. Edited by Major E. S. SWINTON, D.S.O. 
2 volumes. 8vo. Illustrated. $7'50 net. 

" A straight, impersonal handling of a great historical theme." — New York Times. 

" This book must claim attention as being the absolute opinion of the one man on the Russian 
side best qualified to throw light upon the causes and course of the greatest world-disturbing 
international struggle that has taken place for more than a third of a century." — Chicago Tribune. 

MEMORIES OF MY LIFE 

By FRANCIS GALTON, F.R.S., D.C.L., LL.D., Sc.D., etc., Hon. Fellow of Trinity College, 
Cambridge, Officer de instruction Publique (France), etc. Author of " English Men of 
Science," "The Human Faculty," " Natural Inheritance," "Noteworthy Families," etc. 

I volume. Cloth. Illustrated. $J'SO net. 
The autobiography of one of the most distinguished scientists of the XlXth Century — cousin 

of Darwin — and himself an innovator in an extraordinary number of scientific matters. 

" The straightforwardness and unpretentiousness of Mr. Galton's book win the reader's favor 

and hold his attention to the end. The book has the excellent fault of being shorter than one 

could have wished." — The Dial. 

PLAYS ACTING AND MUSIC 

A Book of Theory 

By ARTHUR SYMONS. / volume. Cloth. 8vo. $2.00 net. 

This is a new and revised edition of Mr. Symons's book of critical estimates of dramatic and 
musical persons and subjects. The additions, corrections, and changes made since the first issue 
in 1903 are so great that it is practically a NEW WORK, more in line with the author's advance 
towards his theory of aesthetics. 

The position of Mr. Arthur Symons as a critic and interpreter, both in literature and art, has 
been advancing steadily for a number of years. The appearance of a book by him is of more than 
passing interest to the literary world. 



The Meaning of Money 

By HARTLEY WITHERS 
I 'volume. S'vo. $2.00 net. 

"We have not often met with a treatise on a difficult 
subject in which the author has so nearly attained the end 
he set before himself when he began it . . . the result 
of careful and intelligent ' first-hand ' observation by an 
inquirer enjoying special opportunities for his task." 

«' A book for the average man. Volumes upon vol- 
umes have been written to explain and discuss our 
monetary system. Now we have a work worth all the 
rest put together in clearness of exposition and elegance 
of diction. A truly great work." 



The Sword of the Lord 

A Romance of the time of 
Martin Luther 

By JOSEPH HOCKING, author of " The Woman 
of Babylon," "A Flame of Fire," "Lest we 
Forget," etc. 

i2mo. $l.2^ net. 

This story by one of the most popular of modern 
novelists deals with the stirring times when Europe was 
in the throes of the Reformation. It is a spirited tale 
of plot and counterplot — interwoven with brilliant scenes 
of court and camp. 



E. P. BUTTON & COMPANY, 31 West 23d Street, New York 



350 



THE DIAL 



[June»l, 



Indispensable Books for Every Library 
at Less than One-third Published Price 

T TAVING secured the entire remaining stock of the original 
^^ "Muses' Library," pubHshed by Charles Scribner's Sons 
in conjunction with Lawrence & Bullen of London, we are 
able to offer this well-known series at less than one-third the 
original price. The volumes are beautifully printed and bound, 
and fully edited by prominent English scholars. Each contains 
a portrait in photogravure. A list of the titles is given below. 



POEMS OF JOHN KEATS 

Edited by G. Thorn Drury, with 
an Introduction by Robert 
Bridges. 
Two volumes. 



' ' What was deepest in the mind of Keats was the love of loveliness for 
its own sake, the sense of its rightful and preeminent power ; and in the 
singleness of worship which he gave to Beauty, Keats is especially the 
ideal poet."— Stopford Brooke. 



POEMS OF THOMAS CAMPION 
Edited by A. H. Bullen. 
One volume. 



" Few indeed are the poets who have handled our stubborn English 
language with such masterly deftness. So long as ' elegancy, facility, 
and golden cadence of poesy ' arc admired. Campion's fame will be 
secure." — A. H. Bullen. 



POETRY OF GEORGE WITHER 
Edited by Frank Sidgwick. 
Two volumes. 



' ' The poems of Wither are distinguished by a hearty homeliness of 
manner and a plain moral speaking. He seems to have passed his life 
in one continual act of innocent self-pleasing." — Charles Lamb. 



POEMS OF WILUAM BROWNE 
OF TAVISTOCK 
Edited by Gordon Goodwine, 
with an Introduction by A. H. 
Bullen. 
Two volumes. 



" Browne is like Keats in being before all things an artist, he has the 
same intense pleasure in a fine line or a fine phrase for its own sake. . . . 
In his best passages — and they are not few — he will send to the listener 
wafts of pure and delightful music." — W. T. Arnold. 



POEMS OF SAMUEL TAYLOR 
COLERIDGE 

Edited by Richard Garnett. 
One volume. 



"Although the best poetical work of Coleridge is extremely small in 
bulk . . . yet his poetry at its best reaches the absolute limits of English 
verse as yet written." — George Saintsburv. 



POEMS OF HENRY VAUGHAN 
Edited by E. K. Chambers, with 
an Introduction by H. C. 
Beeching. 
Two volumes. 



" Vaughan may occasionally out-Herbert Herbert in metaphors and 
emblems, but in spite of them, and even through them, it is easy to see 
that he has a passion for Nature for her own sake ; that he has observed 
her works ; that indeed the world is to him no less than a veil of the 
Eternal Spirit, whose presence may be felt in any, even the smallest, 
part." — H. C. Beeching. 



Reduced from $1.75 to 
50c. a Volume, Postpaid 



BROWNE'S BOOKSTORE 

THE FINE ARTS BUILDING 

MICHIGAN BLVD. CHICAGO 



1909] THE DIAL, 351 



LITTLE, BROWN, &■ CO:S NEWEST BOOKS 



Red Horse Hill 



By Sidney McCall 

This intensely dramatic American novel, by the author of "Truth Dexter," with its background of Southern mill life, is 
one of the notable works of fiction of 1909. $1.60 

A Royal Ward Strain of White 

By Percy Brebner By Ada W. Anderson 

A swiftly moving tale of love and adventure by the author A strong romance of the Puget Sound region, by the author 
of " The Princess Maritza." Illustratedin color. of " The Heart of the Red Firs." Illustrated. $1.60 

Cloth. $1.60 

The Kingdom of Earth 

By Anthony Partridge 

Full of exciting adventure and political intrigue, this dashing romance of a European crown prince and a talented 
American girl moves to its climax in bafSing mysteries. Illustrated by A. B. Wemell. $1.60 

The Little Gods The Bridge Builders 

By Rowland Thomas By Anna Chapin Ray 

A realistic book of Philippine Island life and adventure, by " Into the plot is woven very skilfully an account of the last 
an American Kipling, having for its first chapter " Fagan," days and fall of the great structure across the St. Lawrence 
the Coihe?- 15,000 prize story. Illustrated. $1.60 above Quebec." — £osioM GZobe. $1.60 



READY JUNE 5 — THE NEW OPPENHEIM NOVEL 

The Governors 

By E. Phillips Oppenheim 

In which the author of " The Missioner," etc., unfolds an eventful chapter in the life of an American financier and 
his niece Virginia. Illustrated. $1.60 



Whips of Time But Still a Man 

By Arabella Kenealy By Margaret L. Knapp 

Two children are changed at birth, with curious results. The story of a young minister's country parish. $1.60 
Illustrated. $1.60 

In a Mysterious Way 

By Anne Warner 

A story of love and sacrifice by the author of "The Rejuvenation of Aunt Mary " that teems with the original humor of 
Mrs. Ray the village postmistress. Illustrated by J. V. McFall. $1.60 

The Harvest Within The Small Yacht 

Thoughts on the Life of a Christian. jtg Management and Handlina for Racing and Sailing. 

By Captain A. T. Mahan 

$1.60 net ; postpaid. $1.60 By Edwin A. Boardman 

Cook i US'* for Two of the Manchester (Mass.) Yacht Club. 

oy ja ei i \. niii WithSZ full-page plates froTn photographs and original 

A Handbook for Young Housekeepers. ,. , , *«!-./-. ^ i u nta 

Fully illustrated. $1.60 net ; postpaid, $1.68 diagrams and plans. $2.00 net : postpaid. 2.18 

The Panama Canal and Its Makers 

By Vaughan Cornish, of the Royal Geographical Society, London 
A compact, comprehensive, and impartial account of this great work by an eminent English geographer. With map, 
plans, and 63 illustrations from photographs. $1.60 net ; postpaid, $1.61 

LITTLE, BROWN, & COMPANY PUBLISHERS BOSTON 



352 THE DIAL. [June 1,1909. 



tofnyVooksSfras AMONG THE NEW BOOKS FROM 

"suniZl^: THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 



TO BE THE LEADING NOVELS AMONG JUNE ISSUES 

William Allen White's A Certain Rich Man 

No one who has read the vigorous short stories contributed by this author to the American Magazine, of which 
he is one of the editors, can doubt that his forthcoming: novel will be one of the keenest interest. 
„ . , „ J .., . • -. r. . ., w^ ^... It will he ready early in June, 

Mabel Osgood Wright's Poppea of the Post Office 

By the author of "The Garden of a Commuter's Wife," and the other delisrhtful chronicles by "Barbara" of 
which " The Open Window " is the latest. Ready toward the end of June. 



NOW READY 

Mr. F. Marion Crawford's new novel The White Sister 

It is a new " Saracinesca" story, which means that it belongs to the group of novels which are Mr, Crawford's 
best work. He has always a story to tell and tells it well ; indeed his was always the distinctive power to " tell a 
perfect story in a perfect way." Cloth. $1.50. 

Miss Ellen Glasgow's new novel The Romance of a Plain Man 

It is an absorbing novel, a love story of the new-old South in which Ben's pluck and Sally's beauty are divided 
by all the width between the charming strength of long established poise and the crudenesa of energy, undisci- 
plined by tradition. Cloth. $1.50. 

Frank Danby 'S new novel Sebastian By the author of " The Heart of a Child " 

Is the story of a boy's development, by the author of that extraordinary story of the progress of a girl from being 
Sally Snape to becoming Sarita Mainwaring, and later Lady Kidderminster. Her sketches of London types are, 
according to the London critics, astonishingly keen and brilliant. Cloth. $1.50. 

Rina Ramsay's hunting story The Straw 

The novel of the year for those who love a good run with the hounds, the jolly chaff of a morning meet, and the 
subtle pleasures of feeling the wind in the face, or of watching the sweet unfolding of the trees in a gentle spring 
rain while jogging home tired and satisfied. Cloth. $1.50. 



FOR THOSE OF SPECIAL INTERESTS 

Dr. Edward T. Devine's new book Misery and Its Causes 

A clear analysis based on long experience in interpreting the results of experienced investigation ; a consideration 
of preventive measures, as well as of relief, of community standards, as well as of the welfare of the individual. 

Cloth. $1.25 net; by mail, $1.35. 

Professor Channing and Marion Lansing in Stories of the Qreat Lakes 

have produced for the general reader a rapid, vivid sketch of the varied, picturesque, and adventurous life 
which has for three centuries centred around the Oreat Lakes. 

In the Sto7-ies from American History Series. Illustrated. Cloth. $1.50; by mail, $1.62. 

Kate V. St. Maur's new book The Earth's Bounty 

By the author of "A Self-Supporting Home," written in the same practical and exceedingly interesting way, but 
dealing with some of the larger farm industries. Illustrated. $1.75 net; by mail, $1.8S, 

Professor George R. Carpenter's Life of Walt Whitman 

A new volume in the American Extension of the well-known series of English Men of Lett«rs, which is 
enthusiastically praised by Horace Traubel, one of Whitman's most intimate friends, as " an honest book . . . 
all the big things are in this little book." Cloth. 75 cents net; by mail, 85 cents. 

President Henry C. King's The Laws of Friendship, Human and Divine 

There is something refreshing and delightful in this manly treatment of a theme which in weaker hands lends 
itself to sentimentality. The book is suggestive and helpful. Cloth. $1.25 net; by mail, $1.35. 

Mr. Percy MacKaye's new book The Playhouse and the Play 

A forcible presentation of the fact, which few realize, of the educational influence (not " possible " but " actual ") 
of the theatre, and its nature at present, with a strong plea for an endowed theatre. 

Cloth, 12mo. $1.25 net; by mail, $1.35. 

The Faith and Works of Christian Science By the author o/Confessio Medici 

Those who recall the attractive personality, the sound common sense, and uncommon wit, of one of the most 
notable volumes of essays of recent years will welcome this account of some of the things which physicians and 
surgeons know of this subject. Cloth, 12mo. $1.25 net; by niail,$1.36. 



'AofJ:;Lut"o7 THE MACMILLAN COMPANY ''"^ferv^rr" 



THE DIAL 

a &tmi'MantlHis. Journal of S-iteratg Crtttcigm, Wiacnamn, anti In&trmatt0n. 



No. .'iSl. 



JUNE 1, 1909. 



Vol. XLVI. 



Contents. 

PAGE 

GEORGE MEREDITH ;i.'5;? 

THE MUSE IN THE MOUNTAINS. Perc}/ F. 

Bicknell •STw 

CASUAL COMMENT . . . :557 

Aspects of the copyright question. — The precipitate 
removal of a librarian. — The proposed Harper Me- 
moriiil Library. — Westward the course of library 
activity takes its way. — Mutual confidence among 
publishei-s. — The Shelleyisins of Swinburne. — The 
bewildering array of monthly magazines. — The 
democratizing of culture. — The best cure for brain- 
fag. — The college man in the " bread line." — 
Supervision of young folk's reading. 

COMMUNICATIONS :»0 

" Beauty spots " of Shakespeare's Heroines. Morris 

P. Tilley. 
Thomas Payne and Theodore Roosevelt. Inquirer. 

THE WORLD'S FAMILY OF BIRDS. Leander S. 

Keyser 1561 

NATURE AND THE MAN. May Estelle Cook . . :%2 
In Amei'ican Fields and Forests. — Mills's Wild Life 
on the Rockies. — Selon's Biography of a Silver Fox, 

IN DARKEST AFRICA, AND OTHER LANDS. 

H. E. Coblentz mi 

Churchill's My African Journey. — WoUaston's From 
Ruwenzori to the Congo. — Springer's The Heart of 
Central Africa. — Gugg^isberg's We Two in West 
Africa. — Mrs. Peck's Travels in the Far East. — 
Pennell's Among the Wild Tribes of the Afghan 
Frontier. — Henderson's A British Officer in the 
Balkans. 

THROUGH GARDEN PATHS. Sara Andrew Shafer .'567 
Miss Kingsley's Roses and Rose-Growing. — Miss 
Jeykll's Childi'en and Gardens. — Davidson's Gar- 
dens, Past and Present. — Mrs. Batson's A Summer 
Garden of Pleasure. — Miss Hays's A Little Mary- 
land Garden. — Rexford's The Home Garden. 

RECENT FICTION. William Morton Payne . . . :368 
Snaith's Araminta. — Galsworthy's Fraternity. — 
Bashford's The Pilgrims' March. — North's Syrinx. 
— The Inner Shrine. — Grant's The Chippendales. — 
Webster's A King in Khaki. — Merwin's The Girl 
and the Bill. — Miss Brown's The Story of Thyrza. — 
Miss Davis's W^allace Rhodes. 

VARIOUS BOOKS FOR SUMMER READING . . a73 
A volume of piscatorial pleasantries. — A veteran 
chronicler of ocean voyages. — A pleasant guide 
through by-ways of Parisian life. — A woman's wit 
and enterprise on the farm. — Studying birds in a 
public park. — Fishing in California and Canada. 

BRIEFER MENTION 374 

NOTES .375 

TOPICS IN LEADING PERIODICALS 376 

LIST OF NEW BOOKS 376 



GEORGE MEREDITH. 



It was only about a month ago that we were 
reading Meredith's exquisite tribute to Swin- 
burne ; but what writer is now left alive to pay 
adequate tribute to Meredith, who survived his 
fellow-singer and life-long friend by a scant six 
weeks ? It is a heavy loss to English literature 
that this Spring records ; our two greatest have 
left us, and we have only what consolation may 
be found in the possession of their rich inherit- 
ance, and in the thought that both had lived long 
enough amply to fulfil the purpose of their being. 
The younger singer was one of the first to pro- 
claim the achievement of his elder brother, call- 
ing him nearly half a century ago " one of the 
three pr four poets now alive whose work, per- 
fect or imperfect, is always as noble in design 
as it is often faultless in result," and the elder 
outlived the younger just long enough to say of 
him the most fitting words of praise that any- 
one was heard to speak at the time of his death. 
Thus are the two greatest writers left to the 
twentieth century from the Victorian age insep- 
arably linked in our memory, as they were 
linked one with another during life by the spir- 
itual bond of a common outlook upon the world 
and a common consecration to the art of noble 
expression. 

Despite the praises of those who knew, be- 
stowed upon him in his early manhood, Meredith 
had to wait long for anything like wide recog- 
nition of his extraordinary genius. His story 
has been the old one of the writer who, disdain- 
ing the arts of popularity, makes his appeal to 
a few choice spirits in each lustrum or decade, 
whose accumulating testimony at last breaks 
down the wall of public indifference, and forces 
at least a formal admission of his title to an 
exalted place in the poetic hierarchy. Meredith's 
public acceptance is hardly more than formal 
even now, and he is perhaps destined to occupy 
some such place as Landor occupies in our liter- 
ature, unknown to the populace save by name, 
but loved and cherished by the minority whose 
suffrage really counts and whose judgment in 
the long run absolutely determines all questions 
of literary rank. It is, on the whole, a not 
unenviable fate ; the gusts of popularity are apt 
soon to spend their force, but the trade-winds of 



354 



THE DIAL 



[June 1, 



reasoned critical judgment are neither capricious 
nor intermittent. 

Writing some score of years ago, Professor 
Dowden said : " To many persons, not long 
since, Mr. Meredith's novels seemed to be the 
Woods of Westermain, dark, obscure, and un- 
frequented. Like Poliphilus, in the Renaissance 
allegory, they have now emerged out of the dark 
wood, and are about to refresh themselves from 
its waters." There is no doubt that a few 
thousands of cultivated readers have discovered 
the novels since these words were penned, 
and have esteemed themselves fortunate in so 
doing. But the number of those who are ca- 
pable of finding in " Richard Feverel " and 
"The Egoist" and "Vittoria" the highest 
artistic satisfaction is by nature limited, and is 
never likely to equal the number of those who 
keep Scott and Dickens and Thackeray popular 
from generation to generation. We are not sure 
that this is not poetic justice ; for Meredith's 
novels are undoubtedly chargeable with per- 
versity of manner, and, although not fairly with 
obscurity of thought, certainly with a deliberate 
refusal to moderate their gait to the pace of the 
slow-footed reader, or to temper their dry and 
dazzling light by an admixture of sentiment and 
logical exposition. It is not an altogether un- 
worthy proceeding to make some concessions even 
to didness of wit ; and clearness is a virtue that 
the greatest of artists has no right to scorn. 

Those who resort to Meredith's novels with 
the expectation of swift dramatic action and a 
plot in the cheaper sense of the term are doomed 
to disappointment. Plot there is, but of the sort 
that proceeds rather from character than from 
circumstance. A frequently quoted passage 
expresses the author's views upon this subject. 

" In tragic life, God wot, 
No villain need be ! passion spins the plot. 
We are betrayed by what is false within." 

But if we miss the hurrying excitement and the 
adventurous pattern of the conventional work of 
fiction, we have compensations rich enough to 
make up many times for the defect. We have, 
first of all, a subtlety of characterization, a pen- 
etrative insight into the recesses of the individ- 
ual soul, that few other novelists have equalled, 
and perhaps none surpassed. The presentation 
of character, not by description but by self- 
revelation, was always Meredith's fiuidamental 
aim, and he achieved it to an almost Shake- 
spearian degree. And besides this display of 
sheer creative power, he unfolds for his readers 
a social philosophy that takes for its province 



wellnigh all the moods and relations of mankind, 
a criticism of life that is sometimes mordant, but 
always broadly tolerant and humane. The mo- 
tion of his spirit is often too agile to be easUy 
followed, but its most capricious dartings and 
swoopings are reducible to law, and remain in 
harmonic conformity with a reasoned theory of 
conduct. 

No writer of any time has seen the world with 
a clearer vision than Meredith, or looked life 
more honestly in the face. He kept the open 
mind through all his days, and welcomed every 
fresh adventure of science, fearlessly moving 
forward into the new territory wrested from the 
kingdom of old night. So fundamental was his 
conviction that life is good, that he never shrank 
from the fresh revelations that are always com- 
ing with the advancement of knowledge. His 
was no timorous soul to huddle among the 
shadows lest the light prove too blinding, or to 
cling to tradition despite all evidence that its 
foundations were rotting, and its superstructure 
doomed to be swept away. Not for liim the 
palterings of his fellow- poets — Browning's stub- 
born refusal to listen to any promptings save 
those of the heart, Tennyson's passionate deter- 
mination to " cling to faith beyond the forms of 
faith," Arnold's half-hearted acceptance of the 
inevitable passing of the old order. And the 
world upon which he thus looked with a gaze 
unclouded by vain regrets — the realized world 
of the present and the imagined world of the 
future that science is slowly shaping for our intel- 
lectual acceptance — seemed to him a good world, 
wonderful in plan, and rich in possibilities for 
the emancipated human spirit. 

" He builds the soaring spires, 
That sing his soul in stone: of her he draws, 
Though blind to her, by spelling at her laws, 
Her purest fires." 

Meredith is so great a novelist because he is 
essentially a poet, and the discussion of his fic- 
tion must always lead to the consideration of his 
verse. The philosophy of life and conduct which 
is implicit in his romantic inventions becomes 
explicit and crystallized in his song. His poetry 
is no less difficult of mastery than his prose, but 
is even better worth the needed effort, and who- 
ever applies himself earnestly to the task is sure 
of his reward. The initial difficulties of the 
reader of Meredith's verse are considerable, and 
it may be frankly admitted that many of the 
poems are so crabbed in diction and so laby- 
rinthine in thought that they are hardly worth 
while. But even the most unpromising matrix 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



355 



may conceal nuggets of the purest gold, and we 
would not flatly discourage investigation even of 
such productions as " Junip-to-Glory Jane " and 
the " Odes in Contribution to the Song of French 
History." On the other hand, we would not 
recommend these eccentricities to the beginner. 
But " Modern Love " and " A Reading of 
Earth " and the " Poems and Lyrics of the Joy 
of Earth " may be named in full confidence that 
the reader, if he knows what poetry is, will soon 
learn to revel in their beauty, and be prepared 
to undertake more adventurous excursions later 
on. Best of all to start with is the volume of 
" Selected Poems," taking Mr. Trevelyan's little 
book on " The Poetry and Philosophy of George 
Meredith " as a companion and guide. 

The beauty of his expression, at its not infre- 
quent best, wovdd alone be sufficient to secure for 
Meredith a high place in English poetry. The 
security becomes far greater when we take into 
account the sanity of his thought and its exalted 
ethical message. 

"Ay, be we faithful to ourselves: despise 

Nought but the coward in. us! that way lies 

The wisdom making passage through our slough. 

Am 1 not heard, my head to Earth shall bow; 

Like her, shall wait to see, and seeing wait. 

Philosophy is Life's one match for Fate." 

Life is an unending struggle, but not for that a 
dispiriting one. 

" Never battle's close 

The victory complete and victor crowned; 

Nor solace in defeat, save from that sense 

Of strength well spent, which is the strength renewed. 

In manhood must he find his competence ; 

In his clear mind the spiritual food; 

God being there whUe he his fight maintains; 

Throughout his mind the Master Mind being there, 

While he rejects the suicide despair. 

Accepts the spur of explicable pains." 

Man may make his life or mar it as he will, and 

the responsibility is all his own. 

" For of waves 
Our life is, and our deeds are pregnant graves 
Blown rolling from the sunset to the dawn." 

He should be 
" Obedient to Nature, not her slave : 
Her lord, if to her rigid laws he bows. 
Her dust, if with his conscience he plays knave. 
And bids the Passions on the Pleasures browse." 

The world will not soon forget a poet who can 
speak to it in such appealing accents, inspire it 
to such noble purpose. The mortal part of him 
has gone from the sight of man, but the immortal 
part remains their heritage. 

" Full lasting is the song, though he, 
The singer, passes : lasting too. 
For souls not lent in usury, 
The rapture of the forward view." 



THE MUSE IN THE MOUNTAINS. 

The story is told of the blessed St. Bernard, that 
as he was journeying one day along the shores of 
Lake Geneva a fellow-traveller asked him what he 
thought of the lake. "What lake?" was the holy 
man's rejoinder, so little had he taken note of the 
magnificent scenery that encircled him. 

Of men with St. Bernard's introverted gaze it 
is not primarily the present purpose to write, nor 
of those who, on surveying a panorama of snow- 
capped or sparsely-wooded peaks, can only say with 
Dr. Johnson : " An eye accustomed to flowery pas- 
tures and waving harvests is astonished and repelled 
by this wide extent of hopeless sterility. The ap- 
pearance is that of matter incapable of form or 
usefulness, dismissed by Nature from her care, 
and disinherited of her favors; left in its original 
elemental state, or quickened only with one sullen 
power of useless vegetation." To inveterate city- 
lovers, " it will very readily occur that this uniformity 
of barrenness can afford very little amusement to the 
traveller ; that it is easy to sit at home and conceive 
rocks and heath and waterfalls ; and that these jour- 
neys are useless labours, which neither impregnate 
the imagination nor enlarge the understanding," 

Who of us others, who are neither St. Bernards 
nor Dr. Johnsons, can fail to recall the thrill of 
wonder and delight with which our youthful eyes 
first encountered a wild and extended mountain 
landscape ? Then first awoke in us, together with 
an incipient sense of the immeasurable vastness 
and unutterable grandeur of the universe, perhaps 
also a vague impulse to give some expression to our 
feeling of the bigness of things in general and of the 
majesty of the mountains in particular. Or it may 
have been that the wide-eyed child, repeating the 
history of early man, experienced at first too much 
of awe, even of terror, to be in a fit condition to 
sing the praises of the breath-arresting sublimities 
confronting him. With him perliaps, as with Childe 
Harold, of whom he has yet no knowledge, "high 
mountains are a feeling," and they may not speedily 
become anything less mutely emotional. It has 
taken the human race a long while to overcome this 
first nameless terror. of the vastness and wildness of 
the mountains. Ancient Greece and Rome have no 
Wordsworths or Bryants to celebrate in verse the 
beauties of the Thessalian mountain ranges or of the 
Alpine peaks. Mountains, in fact, enjoy no enviable 
reputation with them. In his "Ars Amatoria" 
Ovid shudders at the very mention of the " windy 
Alps." Virgil couples the adjective improhus with 
monSy as if the latter were something hardly to be 
named in polite society. Horace speaks of the 
"wintry," Lucan of the "icy," and Juvenal of the 
" cruel " Alps. Centuries later, a German tourist, 
Winckelmann, though charmed and delighted with 
the Swiss scenery, was moved to call its moun- 
tains " frightfully " beautiful ( erschrecklich schon). 
Goethe's father could not understand why his son 



366 



THE DIAL 



[June 1, 



turned back at the summit of the St. Gothard, 
instead of pushing on at once into the sunny plains 
of Italy. '' He was especially unable," records the 
poet, "to evince the smallest feeling of apprecia- 
tion for those rocks and misty lakes and nests of 
dragons." 

To instance another example of an impressionable 
nature strangely untouched by mountain scenery, or 
by rural sights of any kind, we find Charles Lamb 
writing to Coleridge in almost angry protest against 
the imputation of nature-worship. His friend had 
thus apostrophized him in verse : 

" My gentle-hearted Charles ! for thou hast pined 
And hungered after Nature many a year, 
In the great city pent." 

And the other bluntly replies : "I have no passion 
(or have had none since I was in love, and then it 
was the spurious engenderment of poetry and books) 
for groves and valleys. The room where I was 
born, the furniture which has been before my eyes 
all my life, a book-case which has followed me about 
like a faithful dog (only exceeding him in knowl- 
edge) wherever I have moved, old chairs, old tables, 
streets, squares, where I have sunned myself, my 
old school, — these are my mistresses. Have I not 
enough without your mountains ? I do not envy 
you. I should pity you did I not know that the 
mind will make friends of anything." Lamb did 
go so far as to admit, in a letter to Manning after a 
trip to the lakes, that " Skiddaw is a fine creature," 
although for him a chance of seeing Fleet Street 
every now and then was necessary, or he should 
" mope and pine away." 

But Lamb was not a great poet ; indeed, so much 
better do we like him as an essayist and a letter- 
writer that we are more than half-willing to see him 
excluded from the company of poets altogether. He 
visited the lake district in premeditated quest of 
" that which tourists call romantic" and he seems 
to have found it ; but it thrilled him to no lyric 
effusion — just a mildly appreciative letter to 
Manning. We must go to his friend Wordworth 
to find a real love of the mountains. In his sonnet 
on Mount Skiddaw he laments that " not an English 
Mountain we behold by the celestial Muses glorified." 

" Yet round our sea-girt shore they rise in crowds : 
What was the great Parnassus' self to Thee, 
Mount Skiddaw ? In his natural sovereignty 
Our British Hill is nobler far ; he shrouds 
His double front among Atlantic clouds, 
And pours forth streams more sweet than Castaly." 

The opening lines of another sonnet well depict the 
shining appearance of a distant snow-capped peak. 

" How clear, how keen, how marvellously bright 
The effluence from yon distant mountain's head. 
Which, strewn with snow smooth as the sky can shed. 
Shines like another sun — on mortal sight 
Uprisen, as if to check approaching Night, 
And all her twinkling stars." 

Turning our steps northward from Wordsworth's 
and Coleridge's haunts, we find that the rugged 
landscape of Scotland has inspired many a noble 
line of poetry. In Sir Walter's verse, of course. 



there is no lack of '' mountains that like giants stand, 
to sentinel enchanted land." From the " steep 
promontory " of " The Lady of the Lake," count- 
less readers have gazed with " the stranger, raptured 
and amazed." Even before Scott, two of his coun- 
trymen, Thomson and Beattie, were alive to the 
charms of mountain and valley ; nor must Bums be 
passed over in silence, nor John Logan and Michael 
Bruce altogether forgotten. To be sure, much of 
this earlier nature-poetry (as one may call it for 
lack of a better term) is stiff and formal and aca- 
demic. Yet Beattie 's account of the youth who 
found his way to poetry through lonely forest paths 
and mountain rambles is not without grace. 

" Concourse and noise and toil he ever fled, 
Nor cared to mingle in the clamorous fray 
Of squabbling imps ; but to the forest sped. 
Or roamed at large the lonely mountain's head, 
Or where the maze of some bewildered stream 
To deep, untrodden groves his footsteps led." 

To Rousseau is commonly given the credit of 
having turned us moderns from conventionality and 
artificiality back to the simple and the natural, to 
the enjoyment of country life and the appreciation of 
wild beauty in forest and mountain. The benign 
influence of mountains on the human mind, he has 
pictured at some length in language plentifully 
sprinkled with flowers of rhetoric. At high eleva- 
tions " the thoughts take on something indescribably 
grand and sublime, in harmony with the environment, 
a tranquil voluptuousness that is utterly free from 
coarseness or sensuality. One seems, on rising above 
the abodes of man, to leave behind all low and 
earthly sentiments ; and the nearer the approach to 
the ethereal regions, the more of their celestial purity 
does the soul appropriate to itself. There one is grave 
without melancholy, calm without indolence." He 
describes his own sensations with considerable unc- 
tion, and expresses surprise that mountain air has 
not hitherto been recognized as a potent medicine 
for body and soul. In the "Nouvelle H^loise," 
Rousseau, speaking through the mouth of Saint- 
Preux, who is returning from a journey round the 
world, vents the most enthusiastic praise of Alpine 
scenery. " The sight of my country," he exclaims, 
" that so-beloved country, where torrents of pleasure 
had inundated my heart, the wholesome, pure atmos- 
phere of the Alps, the soft air of home, sweeter than 
the perfumes of the East, this rich and fertile soil, 
this unrivalled landscape, the most beautiful that 
human eye has ever seen, ... all these things 
threw me into transports that I cannot describe." 

The city-dweller, harassed and weary after his 
winter's work and confinement, should find rest and 
refreshment at this season in Longfellow's lines : 

" If thou art worn and hard beset 
With sorrows that thou wouldst forget. 
If thou wouldst read a lesson that will keep 
Thy heart from fainting and thy soul from sleep, 
Go to the woods and hills ! No tears 
Dim the sweet look that Nature wears." 

Equally good, and also seasonable, are Bryant's 
verses beginning: 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



357 



" Thou who wouldst see the lovely and the wild 
Mingled in harmony on Nature's face, 
Ascend our rocky mountains." 

Not all of U8 at all times, and perhaps compara- 
tively few of us at any time, can feel, with Words- 
worth, a presence that disturbs us with the joy of 
elevated thoughts, a sense sublime of something far 
more deeply interfused ; but it is likely to be on 
Skiddaw, or Monadnock, or Mont Blanc, or Shasta, 
or some other commanding mountain-top, if any- 
where, that this reaction from the prosaic humdrum 
of our routine existence makes itself felt ; and even 
a short half-hour of such experience seems at the 
time cheaply bought by a year of dull toil in the 
cities of the plains. Swinburne somewhere speaks 
of these glorious altitudes as 

" The warm wan heights of air, moon-trodden ways, 
And breathless gates and extreme hills of heaven." 

That the mountains should be inspirers, not only 
of poetry, but also of music, seems to find a ready 
explanation. The multiple echo of a mountainous 
region is almost music in itself. What, then, more 
natural than for the Swiss peasant to yodel from 
every hill-top and make the welkin ring ? or for the 
Scotch highlander to tune up his bagpipes and invite 
the mountains to join in the refrain? A curious 
inquirer might find something in the very shape of 
the mountains — the converging and upward-pointing 
lines, like those of the Gothic arch, the cathedral 
aisle — to account for their awe-inspiring influence ; 
and in the impetuous dash and rollicking freedom 
of their babbling streams, so different from the slug- 
gish and silent flow of lowland brooks and rivers, 
might be discovered another source of musical and 
poetic inspiration. p^j^^Y F. Bicknell. 



CASUAL COMMENT. 



Aspects of the copyright question vary 
enormously according to the point of view. Every 
man's private interest shows an incorrigible tendency 
to effect, for that man, a total obscuration of the 
billion or more interests of the rest of the world ; 
and thus the arguments of champions of opposing 
interests frequently become as futile and absurd as 
the quarrel of the two knights-errant concerning the 
color of the shield suspended between them. A 
little illustration of disputation at somewhat cross 
purposes has recently been furnished to readers of 
The Dial. Mr. George Haven Putnam, writing 
from the publisher's point of view, and Messrs. 
Steiner and Cutter from the librarian's, have fav- 
ored us with sundry excellent arguments for and 
against certain restrictions on the importation of a 
certain class of books. Possibly the latter gentle- 
men's zeal in a worthy cause betrayed them into a 
too slight regard for the amenities of speech. " This 
is simply an absolutely false statement " is one of 
those things that might have been expressed differ- 
ently. Perhaps, too, in the ardor of the moment. 



Mr. Putnam's meaning has here and there been a 
little distorted by his critics. For example, Mr. 
Putnam, after speaking of the " Cambridge History 
of English Literature," proceeds to make the gen- 
eral assertion that " it is frequently the case that the 
American librarian purchases the English edition of 
a work at a considerably higher price than lie would 
pay for an American edition equally attractive in 
form " — a simple and indisputable fact, even though 
the degree of " frequency " of this occurrence may 
be open to dispute. Our librarian correspondents, 
however, have seized upon this innocent statement 
and made it apply to the " English Literature " 
alone, which, they go on to say, " can be imported, 
for a library, for about two dollars, not as Mr. 
Putnam says, for more than the American edition 
costs, ' equally attractive in form.' " Surely the 
librarians have a strong enough case without putting 
into an opponent's mouth words that he never 
uttered. But, whatever the more immediate issue, 
our aeronauts assure us that the day is dawning when 
the barriers of tariffs and customs will have to fall, 
not being capable of erection to the heights attained 
by air-ships ; and then, to use a favorite phrase of 
the late Professor Perry of Williams, "the petty, 
piddling processes of protection " will cease to vex 
the importer, whether of French modes or of English 
books. ... 

The pbecipitatk removal of a librarian, 
of more than twenty years' active service in his post 
and in honorable repute in his profession, is a matter 
that naturally calls out considerable comment and 
criticism. The abrupt dismissal of Mr. Hild, of the 
Chicago Public Library, is one of those occurrences 
hard to account for except infer entially through 
the mysterious machinations of professional politics. 
When Dr. Poole, one of the most experienced and 
distinguished librarians in the country, left the 
Public Library for the Newberry, he was asked by 
the Directors to recommend a successor, and he 
named Mr. Hild as in his opinion the best man for 
the place. Dr. Poole was not likely to be mistaken 
about a man who had worked under his own eye for 
a dozen years, as Mr. Hild had done ; and the favor- 
able prepossession created by this endorsement was 
confirmed by long years of faithful, and, until the 
present outbreak, approved service by Mr. Hild as 
librarian. The charge of incompetency which it 
has taken twenty years to reach is, under the cir- 
cumstances, not altogether satisfying to the public 
whose interests the Library Board, no less than the 
librarian, is supposed to serve. It can hardly be 
deemed uncharitable to suggest that the Board itself 
may be at least partly responsible for the state of 
affairs which is made the ostensible ground of its 
drastic action. The lack of branch libraries and of 
travelling libraries, the insufficient coordination of 
the public library with the public schools, and the 
disproportionate expense of circulating the library's 
books, are details in which the trustees are surely no 
less concerned than the librarian. Unceremonious 



358 



THE DIAL 



[June 1, 



discharge of the latter official does not commend 
itself as the best way to supply such existing defects 
as have been pointed out. 

The proposed Harper Memorial Library 
for the University of Chicago is likely to have 
features that will make it somewhat of a novelty in 
library architecture, at the same time that it will be 
a worthy memorial of the man whose best thought 
and energy went to the upbuilding of the institution 
of which he was the first head. The May number 
of " The University of Chicago Magazine " opens 
with a good description, by Professor Andrew C. 
McLaughlin, of the building that is yet to be — 
that has, in fact, not yet been fully designed. Rati- 
fication of the architect's plans is still to come, but 
some brief excerpts from the published description 
may safely be given. The new library " is to form 
the centre of the row of buildings forming a con- 
nected line from Ellis Avenue to Lexington Avenue 
along the Midway. . . . The library building is 248 
feet long from east to west along the Midway ; its 
width north and south is 60 feet. At either end is 
a tower 60 feet by 50, rising above the main roof 
of the building, its highest turret 128 feet from the 
ground." The main part of the building will be 
comparatively low with no floors above the general 
reading-room in the third story. Book-stacks are in 
the basement, although they may be also introduced 
in rooms that at first will be used as offices and other- 
wise. The many-storied towers will have numerous 
rooms for various purposes, and the tower corridors 
will be accessible from adjacent buildings by means 
of bridges. The reading-room, 140 by 50 feet, with 
high vaulted ceiling, will seat 288 readers — 38 more 
than the reading-room of the Library of Congress. 
So far as one can see, the needs of a great university 
library, the intellectual centre of the university life, 
have been wisely and generously provided for, except 
that more ample allowance might have been made 
for future accessions of books. In this item nine 
libraries out of ten fail to forsee the rapidity of their 
growth in even the near future. For example, the 
comparatively new library building of the University 
of Illinois found itself cramped for book-room in a 
surprisingly short time after it had opened its doors. 

Westward the course of library activity 
TAKES its way, as is shown by the recent transfer 
of the official headquarters of the American Library 
Association from Boston to Chicago, and by the 
movement, already well under way, for holding the 
annual conference of the Association next year in 
California. At a recent meeting of the California 
Library Association, at Oakland, a resolution was 
passed urging upon the Council of the A. L. A. the 
desirability of holding next year's national conven- 
tion at Pasadena, a place almost ideally situated 
for such a purpose — especially if the time for the 
event could be fixed for April, a month when the 
charms of that fair land are at their loveliest. The 



plans already tentatively formulated include the use 
of the largest hotel in Pasadena, with an assembly 
room well fitted for the sessions of the convention, 
and with special rates and accommodations for the 
librarians. The inspiring beauties of the surround- 
ing regions, and the proximity of both the mountains 
and the sea, would afford opportunity for pleasurable 
excursions and entertainments, while the going and 
coming might be made delightful and profitable by 
including, under advantageous conditions and at 
economical rates, side trips to the Grand Caflon in 
going, and to Yo Semite in returning by a northern 
route. The plan is certainly an attractive one, and 
is likely to receive favorable consideration from the 
librarians at their annual conference this month in 
the White Mountains. 

Mutual confidence among publishers has 
been promoted, in the London publishing world, 
by the formation of the Publishers' Circle, a sort 
of literary-commercial-dining (or lunching) club 
already mentioned by us. As a simple illustration 
of the benefits accruing to members of this organi- 
zation, let us quote a passage from Mr. Arthur 
Waugh's reported utterances concerning the Circle, 
its mission, and its achievement. " It was only the 
other day," said he, "that a literary agent came to 
our firm [Messrs. Chapman and Hall] offering a 
book by an author, the sales of whose last work, he 
assured me, had amounted to 5000 copies. I told 
him I was confident that this was not the case. 
He replied by assuring me that it was. When the 
agent had left the room I rang up the publisher of 
the book in question, and he informed me that the 
entire sales had amounted to 572 copies ! " One 
cannot but wish the ringing-up had been done 
before, instead of after, the zealous agent had de- 
parted. Mr. Waugh says further : " Personally I 
feel that most of us are willing to pay an author 
whatever his book can fairly earn. ... In the 
future it ought to be increasingly possible, through 
the exertions of the Circle, for an author to get just 
as much for his book as he is entitled to — and no 
more." It is now three years since the Circle had 
its informal beginning at the Charterhouse Hotel, 
where half a dozen publishers were wont to lunch 
together. Its gradual growth, what it has done, 
and what it hopes to do, are all Ynatters of more 
than technical interest. 

The Shelleyisms of Swinburne might furnish 
matter for an extended essay. By Swinburne's 
Shelleyisms we shall here signify merely the 
more or less unconscious points of resemblance in 
the later poet's life and character to the briefer 
career and more ardent temperament of the earlier. 
Mr. Andrew Lang, in some " Impressions of Swin- 
burne " contributed to the New York " Evening 
Post," touches briefly on a few of these parallelisms. 
Both poets were born aristocrats with a literary 
passion for democracy ; each went his own inde- 
pendent way at Oxford, though Swinburne's way 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



359 



was by far the quieter, and each left the Univer- 
sity without a degree ; both were lovers and skilful 
imitators of Greek poetry, especially of Greek 
tragedy. There are no traditions of Swinburne's 
" ragging the dons " in Shelley's manner. On the 
contrary he conducted himself undemonstratively, 
choosing mainly the society of a Scottish student 
named Nichol, who later became professor of English 
literature at Glasgow. There is a tradition that, 
when asked to subscribe to the cricket club, young 
Swinburne proposed that he and Nichol should pay 
one subscription between them ; and tradition also 
avers that persons passing the young poet's rooms 
were more than likely to hear him reading poetry 
aloud and Nichol knocking the ashes from his pipe. 
Mr. Lang is inclined to think it " hardly conceivable 
that, as a poet and an Etonian in boyhood, Mr. 
Swinburne should not have modelled himself, more 
or less consciously, on Shelley." 
• • • 
The bewildering array of monthly maga- 
zines that meets the eye on the railway news-stand 
must have often prompted the query. How do they 
all manage to keep going ? Probably the correct 
answer to this question is that comparatively few 
are really published at a profit. A great number 
are creatures of a day — or a year, at most. They 
perish, but their places are immediately taken by 
fresh contestants in the struggle for existence, — 
hope seeming to spring eternal in the breast of the 
would-be magazine publisher. Of the undistinguished 
many that thus float on the wave of a bi'ief pros- 
perity, or make-believe prosperity, little heed need 
be taken. But when a publication of some solidity 
and worth, like "Appleton's Magazine," vacates its 
wonted place on the news-stand, its retirement elicits 
a word of regret. Messrs. D. Appleton & Co. an- 
nounce the discontinuance of the above-named 
monthly with the June number, and also an arrange- 
ment with the publishers of " Hampton's Magazine " 
by which that periodical will be supplied to Appleton 
subscribers during the unexpired terms of their sub- 
scriptions. " Appleton's " deserved a better fate. 

The democratizing of culture, as one might 
call the aim and purpose of the proposed Massa- 
chusetts College and also of the new system of uni- 
versity extension work undertaken by Oxford, is one 
of the most important movements in education that 
the world has seen, being comparable with the insti- 
tution of the public-school system itself. That aris- 
tocratic Oxford should lend its support and its 
prestige to the new departure, whereby some of the 
benefits of a veritable university education are to be 
placed within the reach of the plebeian many, is a 
memorable and a pleasing occurrence in the history 
of culture ; and that the State of Massachusetts, 
which embraces within its borders some of the oldest 
and most conservative colleges (including the very 
oldest and most aristocratic) in the land, should also 
seek to broaden and popularize the scope of the 



higher education, is likewise noteworthy and com- 
mendable. As President Hadley said recently in an 
address at Mt. Holyoke College, culture is a relative 
term, varying in meaning in different ages and 
among different communities ; but its essential ele- 
ment is the broadening of mental vision and the 
enlarging and perfecting of appreciation. Yet, 
after all is said and done, there will remain not a 
few, of an earlier generation, who cherish, rightly 
enough, the conception of culture as something best 
attained by pursuing the time-honored prescribed 
course at a college not yet wholly committed to 
" electives." . . . 

The best cure for brain-fag is sought by more 
than one jaded literary worker at this season of the 
year. A little book by Dr. Warren Achorn, entitled 
" Nature's Help to Happiness," presents some pleas- 
ant methods of recuperation. The doctor would 
turn all city dwellers out to grass — bring them into 
close and continuous contact with the earth, espe- 
cially on mountain-tops and in forests. Out-door 
sleeping is recommended, and as much open-air work 
as would be required to keep a vegetable garden 
free from pig-weed, dandelions, quitch-gi-ass, and 
other unwelcome invaders of the potato-patch and 
the onion-bed. Dr. Achorn has been a member of 
the medical staff of the Emmanuel Church move- 
ment (otherwise known as Psychotherapy), and he 
is a firm believer in the social efficacy of this 
" ground cure." Strikes would be far less frequent, 
he believes, if every workman cultivated a garden 
and were more intent on punishing the weeds therein 
than on pestering his employer for shorter hours and 
higher wages. • • • 

The college man in the "bread line" is a 
spectacle that saddens and that moves to reflection. 
College education is more and more striving to 
coordinate itself with the demands of modern life and 
industry, the sciences are ousting the old-fashioned 
" humanities," the principles of trade and commerce 
are taught, and to an increasing extent the practical 
is taking precedence of the ideal. And yet we are 
told by a mission worker in the slums of New York 
(we refer to Mr. E. C. Mercer and his Columbia 
University address on " College Graduates on the 
Bowery ") that one night he counted thirty-nine 
college men of his acquaintance in the Bowery 
"bread line," while another investigator found four 
hundred college men in the Bowery in a single 
night. Under the old educational regime a college- 
bred pauper was an almost unheard of anomaly. 
Can it be that, after all, the most practical things 
are in some danger of proving the most useless ? 

Supervision of young folk's reading and 
stimulation of interest in good literature can, as Mr. 
Judson T. Jennnings of the Seattle Public Library 
observes in his current Report, be advantageously 
accomplished by the public-school teacher in con- 
nection with the daily lessons. The delegation of 
an assistant librarian to do work of this sort in the 



360 



THE DIAL 



[June 1, 



Saturday morning " story hour " has been objected 
to by some as not the most economical or effective 
means of attaining the desired end. With the 
cooperation of the teachers, library work in the 
schools is inexpensive, no special reading-rooms or 
staff of assistants being required ; and who, except 
perhaps a wise parent, could better understand the 
child's individual needs and peculiar temperament 
than the child's teacher? " If she is wise enough," 
says Mr. Jennings, " to realize the important part 
which intelligent reading has in education, both 
during and after school days, she wiU coordinate 
the pupil's reading with his school work and thereby 
create an added interest in each." 



COMMUNICA TIONS. 



" BEAUTY^POTS" OF SHAKESPEARE'S HEROINES. 

(To the Editor of The Dial.) 
Mos : " Ware pensals. How ? Let me not die your debtor, 
My red Domini call, my golden letter. 
O that your face were full of Oes 1 
Qm ; A pox of that jest, and I beshrew all shrows." 

Love's Lahour''s Lost, V., ii., ^7. 

Rosaliue, in a parry of wit, dii-ects these lines at 
Katherine, her fellow waiting-lady to the Princess. 
" Oes " here has been taken, in connection with the more 
correct reading of the quarto [were not so full of], to 
refer to marks of small-pox that disfigure Katherines 
face [Z. L. L., Variorum, V., ii., 45, note] ; or to the pim- 
ples that Rosaline wishes that she might see on her 
friend's countenance [^First Folio Shakespeare, L. L. L., 
p. 173, note]. The Arden Edition of " L. L. L." (1906) 
explains it as meaning " spots, pimples." The same 
edition supports its definition of " pensals," as " small 
finely-pointed brushes for the insertion of spots or lines," 
by quotations from contemporary writers. 

" Oes " probably refers to the black beauty-spots by 
which the blonde beauty has thought to enhance her fair- 
ness ; for Diunaine could not well have said of Katherine 
that she was as " fair as day " (iv., ii., 90), had her face 
been pitted with marks of small-pox. Nor does the 
interpretation of " Oes " as pimples seem to me to fit 
into the sense of the passage. For reference to the 
black velvet patches that were worn at this time to 
enhance a beauty's complexion, see Lyly's " Midas " 
(Bond ed., vol. iii., p. 121, 1. 80; and p. 155, 1. 109). 

The color of these beauty-spots, as well as their 
shape, gives Rosaline an opportunity "not to die 
Katherine's debtor." " Oes " is here an archaic form 
of " ooze," rhyming, according to its older pronunciation, 
with " shrowes." Our modern pronunciation (uz) had 
not established itself at this time [s. oes, ooze in Oxford 
Dictionary]. Webbe in his " Travailes," 1590, [Arber 
Reprint, p. 32, a], gives us the spelling " oes " for 
" ooze " : " She might have gone to the mid leg in oes 
or mire." 

With " oes " in the sense of " ooze " in this passage, 
we have preserved not only the pun on the letter " o," 
but in the color of ooze we have a distinct addition to 
the thought of the passage as a whole, emphasizing as 
it does the contrast between the dark beauty of Rosa- 
line and the blonde beauty of Katherine. 

"A pox of that jest " — the Princess's contribution to 
this play of wit — is a further turn of the thought, this 



time associating Rosaline's " oes " with the pock-marks 
of small-pox. The ability to flash such a change in the 
meaning of a word is oue of the tests of the " squibs 
and crackers of speech " in this play. 

In the one other passage where " oes "' is used by 
Shakespeare {Mids. N's. D., III., ii., 192-195), there is a 
similar contrast between a blonde and a brunette beauty, 
as there is also a pun on the letter " o." It may be 
that Shakespeare intended here by the use of " oes " to 
refer not only to the stars but to the dark beauty of 
Hermia as well. MoRRiB P. Tilley. 

University of Michigan, May 20, 1909. 



THOMAS PAINE AND THEODORE ROOSEVELT. 
(To the Editor of The Dial.) 

In that dignified and forceful journal of public dis- 
cussion in England, the weekly " Nation " of London, I 
find (issue of May 10) an eloquent editorial article on 
Thomas Paine and his " long life of conspicuous service 
in the causes of political and spiritual enlightenment in 
three great countries of which he was a citizen." The 
writer says: 

" From his early life of sordid struggle, in what his biog- 
rapher justly calls ' an almost incredible England,' he [Paine] 
carried into the New England across the water a consuming 
passion for human justice and liberty, not as platform phrases, 
but as hard, concrete goods worth fighting and dying for, 
which set America afire, when she was confusedly ijondering 
' an impossible and unnatural reconciliation.' From America 
to France, fresh in the throes of her great upheaval, he passed, 
not as an incendiary, but as a moderating and constructive 
influence in her National Convention, risking his very life 
for the cause of clemency in dealing with a traitorous king. 
From France to England, carrying the same doctrines of 
liberty in politics and religion, not a cold utilitarian concep- 
tion of individual rights, but a rich human gospel of a com- 
monwealth sustained by a passion of humanity as deep and real 
as ever inflamed the soul of man. He was one of the first open 
advocates of the liberation of the negro slaves, of the abolition 
of capital ijunishment, of international treaties of ai-bitration : 
forty years before Comte he was the author of the phrase 
'the Religion of Humanity.' So far was he from being the 
atheist his malignant traducers fastened in the common mind, 
that his first and avowed motive in writing his ' Age of 
Reason' was to induce man to ' return to the pure, unmixed, 
and unadulterated belief in one God and no other.' . . . The 
man whose eloquent and reasoned appeal, ' Common Sense,' 
first formulated the demand for independence, the first coiner 
of the great thought and expression, ' The United States of 
America,' the man whom Washington and Jefferson were 
proud to call their friend, and whose magnificent work for 
the liberation of their country they acknowledged with 
unstinted praise, — this man was spoken of by Theodore 
Roosevelt quite recently as ' a dirty little atheist.' But, after 
all, our feelings of resentment at such a brutality are assuaged 
by the reflection that whereas Mr. Roosevelt will in a quick 
generation sink to the obscurity from wliich a series of acci- 
dents lifted him for a few years, history will gradually set in 
its proper place among the makers of the Republic the mem- 
oiy of the man whom he defamed." 

I have quoted this striking passage chiefly to ask 
whether it is really true that Mr. Roosevelt ever ap- 
plied to Paine the epithet given, and, if so, when, and 
under what circumstances. I have the impression that 
the term is not original with Mr. Roosevelt; but that 
he even used it at all, in any way of endorsement, is 
something I do not like to believe. Inquirer. 

Chicago, May 18, 1909. 

[Perhaps some of our readers may be able to 
answer this correspondent's inquiry. — Edr. The 
Dial.] 



1909.] 



THE DIAJL 



361 



t Sttto looks. 



The WORLD'S Family of Birds.* 

The awakening of interest in all fields of 
nature study, especially the study of birds, is 
illustrated by the issue of Dr. Knowlton's hand- 
some volume on "Birds of the World." There 
is no doubt that the book fills a real want. 
Thousands of bird-lovers have long felt the need 
of just such a work as this, which covers the avi- 
faunal field the world over and still is not too 
expensive or bulky. Heretofore the student of 
cosmopolitan bird-life has had to rummage every- 
where, with a large expenditure of time and 
money, in order to procure the information he 
desired relative to the life of birds in various 
parts of the world. While some might have 
preferred the work in two volumes, perhaps 
three, for convenience in handling and holding, 
yet it is to be assumed that there were good rea- 
sons for issuing it in one good-sized volume at a 
moderate price, rather than in several volumes 
at a greater cost. Large as the book is, it is 
well made, with a loose back so that it will lie 
open at any page, and therefore can be held on 
the lap or laid on the desk during perusal. The 
type is clear and large, and the paper of excel- 
lent quality. 

The contents of the work deserve unstinted 
praise. There is, in fact, little if anything to 
criticize. Even some of the more cheaply exe- 
cuted of the pictures are so truly illustrative as 
well to warrant their insertion. The literary 
quality of the work is good. It is not always 
that a scientific writer possesses a clear-cut lit- 
erary style. We know several valuable books 
on birds that suiifer much from the author's 
inability to tell his story in an attractive way. 
Dr. Knowlton, we are glad to say, describes his 
birds in such a simple and effective manner that 
the reader is pleased and interested at the same 
time that he is instructed. 

On the title-page, Mr. Robert Ridgway is 
mentioned as the editor of the book. His 
preface informs us that he did little more than 
carefully to read and slightly revise the author's 
manuscript. However, that was invaluable ser- 
vice, for it frees the text from typographical and 
scientific errors, and renders it as nearly correct 
as exact literary and scientific scholarship can 
make it. The author's Introduction is of much 

•Birds of the World: A Popular Account. By Frank H. 
Knowlton, Ph.D. With sixteen colored plates by Mary Mason 
Mitchell, and 236 other illustrations. New York: Henry Holt 
&Co. 



value ; it gives the latest definition of a bird, 
showing its place in the classified system of ani- 
mal life, and tells also of such matters as tem- 
perature, feathers, colors, pterylosis, renewal of 
feathers, age of feathers, nests and eggs, etc. 
An excellent chapter, devoted to the anatomy 
of birds, is contributed by Dr. Frederic A. 
Lucas, curator-in-chief of the Brooklyn Institute 
of Arts and Sciences. Then follow illuminating 
chapters by the author, on the geographical 
distribution of birds, their migration and classi- 
fication. On these subjects the author indicates 
what is actually known, while pointing out what 
still remains in the realm of speculation among 
scientific observers. It is extremely satisfactory 
thus to have presented the latest information 
obtainable in this field of nature-study. 

The matter in the main body of the work is 
arranged according to the best system of classi- 
fication yet devised, although the author gives 
full credit to other systems. Under each sub- 
class appear the various orders, sub-orders, 
families, super-families, and species, so that the 
systematic student is informed as to the exact 
scientific status of each member of the feathered 
family. It is indeed a joy to the student to 
have before him a book in which he can trace 
all the thousands of avian species in the world. 
True, the limitations of the work preclude the 
mention of all the species in some families — as, 
for example, the Wood-warblers and Humming- 
birds ; but this does not prevent the student from 
finding the place of each species, whether named 
or not, in the avicular system. In the case of 
many families and species, enough is said about 
them to afford a satisfactory life history, the 
chief diagnostic habits being detailed . Wherever 
a species shows some very marked peculiarity, it 
is described with sufficient fulness. In brief, it 
may be said that the author has shown excellent 
and discriminating judgment in his selection of 
material, omitting nothing that was essential, 
and yet including whatever is of vital interest 
to the bird-lover. The work is, therefore, all 
that it purports to be — a veritable handbook 
of the birds of the world. 

To give an example of the easy, flowing style 
of the author, and at the same time show that he 
has not written merely a dry table of statistical 
data, but has himself a warm appreciation of 
what is fascinating about our feathered neigh- 
bors, we quote the opening paragraph of his 
article on the Thrushes. 

" The mere mention of the word Thrush, at once sug- 
gests musical ability of a high order; and well it may, 
for the present group numbers among its members some 



362 



THE DIAL 



[June 1, 



of the most exquisite songsters of tlie whole wide world. 
The ringing, flute-like notes of the Yeery, the clear, 
pure come-to-me or e-o-lie of the Wood Thrush, the 
solemn, mysterious, silvery, bell-like tones of the Hermit 
Thrush, as they come to us from the cool depths of the 
forest, and the cheerful, extended vocabulary of the 
Robin, have placed them, one and all, high in the regard 
of lovers of bird music. The far-famed Nightingale of 
Europe, together with the Throstle, or Song Thrush, and 
the Blackbird and Robin Redbreast, so dear to English 
hearts, are all members of this widespread and highly 
musical family." 

While we are considering the Family Tin^- 
didce, it may he well to take it as an instance 
of the manner of the author's treatment of an 
interesting group of birds. He is disposed to 
cut out of this family the Old World Warblers, 
the Mockingbirds (including the Thrashers and 
Catbirds), the Dippers, and the Gnatcatchers. 
In spite of this extensive excision, Dr. Knowlton 
informs us that the Thrush family " comprises 
between five and six hundred forms disposed 
among some seventy genera ; and if the New 
Zealand Thrushes (Turnagra) really belong 
here, which some doubt, it is practically cosmo- 
politan, though most abundant in the warmer 
parts of the Old World." He puts the lyrical 
Solitaires into this group, and that would be 
distinction enough even if the family contained 
not a single other feathered musician. There 
are half a dozen genera and thirty forms of the 
Solitaire sub-family, all of them native American 
birds except a single Hawaiian genus. We 
wonder what an Old World ornithologist would 
think if he were to be awakened some morning 
with the peerless song of Townsend's Solitaire 
ringing in his ears. Besides the Robin, the Wood 
Thrush, the Hermit Thrush, etc., we find that 
there is a marvellous singing Thrush in South 
America, some ground Thrushes in Africa, Asia, 
Australia, and New Zealand, and one represent- 
ative (the Varied Thrush) in the New World. 
The Fieldfare and Ring Ouzel of Europe belong 
to this varied fa.mily ; so do the Rock Thrushes, 
the Accentors, the Bush Chats, the English 
Robin, the Nightingale, the Wheateavs, the 
Bluebirds, and quite a number of other forms. 
This will indicate the way in which Dr. Knowl- 
ton has packed his book with information, which 
an elaborate index makes easily accessible. 

The illustrations show the birds in the midst 
of their natural surroundings, and the subjects 
have been selected for their beauty and effec- 
tiveness. The sixteen full-page plates in colors, 
done by Miss Mary Mason Mitchell, can hardly 
be praised too highly. The coloring is most 
delicate ; the poses are expressive, showing 
the birds at their best, as all bird pictures 



should ; and the setting for each bird is worked 
out with an accuracy and a loveliness of detail 
that any artist might be proud of achieving. 
Even the birds from far-off parts of the world 
are shown amidst their native environment. It 
would be hard to find a more captivating pic- 
ture than Miss Mitchell's portrayal of the Great 
Crowned Pigeon of the Papuan and Solomon 
Islands. Not to mention others, the studies of 
the Racket-tailed Kingfisher, the Fiery Topaz 
Hummingbird, the Elegant Pitta, Collie's 
Magpie-Jay, and the Central American Tana- 
ger, leave nothing to be desired either in beauty 
or effectiveness of delineation. The most ardent 
bird-lover will hardly be disappointed in this 
admirable work, which will afford him the priv- 
ilege of revelling in the study of the world's 
birds in print and picture, which is the next 
best thing to studying them in their haunts, and 
costs much less in time, money, and effort. 

Leander S. Keyser. 



Nature and the Man.* 



The Nature-books of the season, though few 
in number, form an excellent pretext for the ex- 
pression of thankfulness that the men who have 
been our leaders and admonishers in the love 
of Nature have been and are men of the most 
admirable character. " No other such body of 
Nature literature as ours," says Mr. Dallas 
Lore Sharp, " is seen anywhere else "; and we 
may add, with even greater justice, " and no- 
where else such a delectable group of natural- 
ists." The " spacious skies and fields of waving 
grain " would have been ours without these 
interpreters, and would have called forth our 
love. But how far in the study and under- 
standing of Nature would any of us have gone 
without the writings of the pioneers in this 
field ? And how much of the " general, wide- 
spread turning to the out-of-doors," which is 
now spoken of as one of our national character- 
istics, would have taken place had not the men 
who set the fashion been even better worth 
knowing in themselves than in their writings ? 
No wonder that we have followed them, — for 
they have shown themselves healthy of body, 

*lN American Fields and Forests. By Henry D. Thoreau. 
John Burroughs, Bradford Torrey, Dallas Lore Sharp, Olive 
Thome Miller. With illustrations from photographs by Herbert 
W. Gleason. Boston : Houghton MiflBin Co. 

Wild Life on the Rockies. By Enos A. Mills. With illus- 
trations from photographs. Boston : Houghton Mifflin Co. 

The Biography of a Silver Fox. A Companion Volume to 
" The Biography of a Grizzly." By Ernest Thompson Seton. 
Illustrated by the author. New York: The Century Co. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



363 



quick of eye, keen of mind, and loving and 
happy of heart. Nor should sea and sky and 
mountains have all the credit for the beauty of 
their manliness, for " without soul all these are 
dead," and it is man himself who furnishes the 
soul. We are likely to forget that Nature needs 
man as much as man needs Nature, — that, as 
Emerson put it, " the power to produce delight 
does not reside in nature, but in man, or in a 
harmony of both." We have to thank them all, 
therefore, from Audubon and Emerson down to 
the naturalists of to-day, both scientific and 
philosophical, for being men of such disposition 
that they loved Nature, and of such character 
that they made it seem to us a lovely thing to 
love her. 

The list of these leaders and teachers is too 
long for us to recount the services which each 
has rendered as an individual. A new volume 
of extracts called " In American Fields and 
Forests " makes a good representative selection. 
Thoreau taught us even more by his independ- 
ence than by his observations ; for did he not 
prove that it is safe for a man to throw himseK 
upon the bosom of Nature, free of all conven- 
tions, and that one man living so can form a 
better society than even that of Concord in the 
days of its glory? Mr. John Burroughs is 
himself the " University of the Catskills," 
offering as good courses in the humanities as in 
the sciences, — or, rather, offering a combina- 
tion of the two such as our other universities 
have not yet attained. Mr. John Muir has 
rendered us a similar but sublimer service on 
the Pacific Coast. How much poorer should 
we all have been had he not possessed an eye 
to see and a soul to feel the beauty of the great 
Sequoias, the charm of the Yosemite, and the 
mystic grandeur of the mountain glaciers ? Mr. 
Bradford Torrey and Mr. Dallas Lore Sharp, 
though they confess themselves followers rather 
than pioneers, have no less potent influence on 
us, because while leading lives not very different 
from our own every-day existences they keep 
themselves in touch with Nature by their interest 
in "old roads" and birds and muskrats — and 
even skunks. And Mrs. Olive Thorne Miller 
has proved that women can qualify in this 
fellowship, doing the same things as man, though 
always with a difference. The selections from 
these entertaining writers can hardly be expected 
to please all Nature enthusiasts, for the obvious 
reason that in a book of selections something 
has to be omitted. But it would have been 
difficult to choose more wisely, and the choice 
is wide enough to include four essays each from 



Thoreau and Mr. Burroughs, and two each from 
Mr. Bradford Torrey, Mr. Sharp, and Mrs. 
Miller. Half a dozen pictures, from photo- 
graphs taken especially for this book and repro- 
duced in photogravure, show typical beauties 
of our Eastern fields and woodlands, appro- 
priate to the various naturalists' appreciations 
of them. 

It is not very often that a new name is added 
to the roll of these elect, but this is one of the 
fortunate years. People who go to Estes Park, 
in Colorado, hear the story told of Mr. Enos 
Mills that when he was Government Snow 
Observer for that State Mr. Roosevelt tele- 
graphed him " Come at once to Washington," 
and that he replied, " Can't ; I 'm too busy." 
The new book from his pen, called " Wild Life 
on the Rockies," gives the story a probable 
sound, for it shows the absorption with which 
Mr. Mills goes about his business. It is a 
delightful book on its own account, but its chief 
charm is in the revelation of the author's per- 
sonality. A man who refuses to carry fire-arms 
in a country where mountain lions and timber 
wolves are plenty, and who always manages in 
some way when he encounters them to justify 
his hardihood, who sleeps out of doors on moun- 
tain peaks in the dead of winter without blankets 
or overcoat and often without a camp-fire, who 
carries only raisins for food and is not disturbed 
if even these give out for a day or two ; who 
passes through an electric storm which pulls his 
hair, binds his muscles, and shakes his heart — 
literally — with no other emotion than that of 
enjoyment, — this is the genuine sort of man 
whose name may worthily be added to the num- 
ber of our Nature teachers. Mr. Mills's book 
is written with the simple directness, almost 
bluntness, characteristic of the man. It contains 
chapters on the snowfall, the forests, the parks, 
and some of the individual peaks of the Rockies, 
some excellent animal stories, and a fascinating 
history of a thousand-year pine. Pictures of 
the author in the door of his pine-shaded log- 
cabin, of snow-clad crests that he has climbed 
and camped upon, of Rocky Mountain " parks " 
and forests that he has explored, furnish an 
interesting descriptive backgroimd for the nar- 
rative. 

Mr. Thompson Seton has written " The Biog- 
raphy of a Silver Fox " as a companion volume 
to the *' Biography of a Grizzly." The author 
calls attention to the fact that the story contains 
incidents similar to those in Mr. Roberts's story 
of Red Fox ; but those who know both writers 
will know that this was mere accident. The 



364 



THE DIAL 



[June 1, 



story is well told, and is as interesting as any 
of those that have come from this author's 
pen — which is as high praise as a critic could 
well give. Compared with the quite unpreten- 
tious and simple stories in such a book as Mr. 
MiUs's, it perhaps raises the question whether 
the points are not a little strained — a little 
melodramatic — to represent truly the life of our 
brothers of the field, who after all have a great 
deal of the commonplace in their lives, just as 
humans have. The book is artistically bound 
in blue and silver, beautifully decorated and 
illustrated, and will be a most acceptable gift- 
book for children. 

There is much more that might be said in 
praise of the sort of men who have endeared 
themselves to us through the study of Nature, 
but one appreciative thought chiefly abides. 
These men who give so much of their lives to 
woods and fields and animals might easily des- 
pise and hate man, for he is almost always the 
careless and blind self-seeker, and sometimes 
the wanton destroyer. But these writers have 
no bitter and cruel words. In them, the love 
of Nature has grown so deep that it includes 
human nature ; and though they deprecate 
man's destructiveness they tolerate man himself, 
and even like him. It was a brave saying of 
Emerson's that " In the distant tranquil land- 
scape, and especially in the distant line of the 
horizon, man beholds somewhat as beautiful as 
his own nature." But it is quite as brave and 
large-minded, now that man has multipled and 
" aggressed " much more atrociously than in 
Emerson's time, to retain the faith that man 
may still have beauty in his soul. 

May Estelle Cook. 



In Darkest Africa, akd Other Lands.* 

The presence of Mr. Roosevelt in Africa, and 
the character and purpose of his expedition, 
seem just now to have brought that country into 
unusual prominence not only in the eyes of 

*My African Journey. By The Right Hon. Winston 
Spencer Churchill, M.P. Illustrated. New York: George H. 
Doran Co. 

From Ruwenzori to the Congo. By A. F. R. WoUaston. 
Illustrated. New York: E. P. Dutton & Co. 

The Heart op Central Africa. By John M. Springer. 
Illustrated. Cincinnati: Jennings & Oraham. 

We Two in West Africa. By Decima Moore and Major 
F. G. Guggisberg. Illustrated. New York : Charles Scribner's 
Sons. 

Travels in the Far East. By Ellen M. H. Peck. Illus- 
trated. Milwaukee: Published by the Author. 

Among the Wild Tribes of the Afghan Frontier. By 
T. L. Pennell. Illustrated. Philadelphia: J. B. Lippincott Co. 

A British Officer in the Balkans. By Major Percy E. 
Henderson. Illustrated. Philadelphia: J. B. Lippincott Co. 



America but of the world. The " Darkest 
Africa " of the geographer and anthropologist is 
eclipsed in interest by that of the adventurer and 
hunter. The scientific study of its wild tribes 
and curious races is giving place to the study of 
its animal life, particularly its " big game," as 
its remotest and obscurest regions are illuminated 
by the flash of Hunter Roosevelt's rifle. Des- 
patches in the daily papers chronicle his move- 
ments and achievements as though they were 
the advance of a conquering army. The tale of 
" Roosevelt's bag to date " (May 20) reads like 
the list of killed and wounded in a battle. 
Among lions, the mortality due to him and his 
son (a formidable junior Nimrod) is stated to 
be 6, rhinoceroses 3, giraffes 3, wildebeestes 3, 
gazelles 1, hippopotamuses 1, cheetahs 1. Such 
by-products of the jungle as pythons and wart- 
hogs are not counted by the hunters, these being 
but " vermin " and not worthy a place in the 
" bag " of noble game. With the above brave 
showing, the despatch states that " Colonel 
Roosevelt to-day added a hippopotamus to his 
big game bag," and that he had also " bagged a 
female rhinoceros. The first shot wounded her 
in the shoulder and the animal fled to the bushes. 
Mr. Roosevelt followed on horseback, and six 
more shots were required to bring the beast 
down." This latter achievement, the despatch 
states, was on Sunday : " the seventh day this, 
the jubilee of man," as Byron sang in his intro- 
duction to the Spanish bull-fight. Later des- 
patches show that the buffalo season has started 
in cheerily, " to-day Mr. Roosevelt and his son 
Kermit having succeeded in bringing down their 
third animal of this kind. The bull buffalo 
wounded by the hunters yesterday fled into the 
marshes, where he was found and finished off." 
It is no wonder, with details as racy as these 
given daily in the newspapers, that Africa is at 
present a theme of absorbing interest and that 
books on Africa are in keen demand. 

First of these in our present list is that of the 
Right Hon. Winston Churchill, M. P., British 
Under Secretary of State for the Colonies, whose 
African journey was undertaken primarily for 
the purpose of informing his countrymen about 
"the wonderful estates they have recently ac- 
quired in the northeastern quarter of Africa." 
On this quest he journeyed from the Indian 
Ocean to Victoria Nyanza, thence through 
Uganda to the navigable waters of the Nile, and 
northward to Cairo. His conclusion is that East 
Africa is not adapted for any rapid develop- 
ment by the white man ; the climatic conditions 
are unfavorable. There is a possibility, however, 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



365 



that the country may be made adaptable for 
the overflow of the swarming millions of India. 
Of Uganda, however, he writes with almost 
unreserved enthusiasm. All tropical products 
may be grown there, as the conditions are unusu- 
ally favorable. Railroads and capital are the 
great requirements for the development of the 
land. If his advice, "Concentrate upon Uganda!" 
is followed, it will be necessary to connect the 
two great lakes, Victoria and Nyanza, by rail, 
and to advance in a similar way to the waters 
of the Nile. Mr. Churchill's journey afforded 
many interesting sights and stirring adventures. 
On one occasion he saw "an awe-inspiring 
procession of eleven elephants. On they came, 
loafing along from foot to foot — two or three 
' tuskers ' of no great value, several large tusk- 
less females, and two or three calves. On the 
back of every elephant sat at least one beautiful 
white egret, and sometimes three or four, about 
two feet high, who pecked at the tough hide — 
I presume for very small game — or surveyed 
the scene with the consciousness of pomp." At 
another time, at Murchisan Falls, he fired a shot 
at a crocodile with surprising results. "What 
the result of the shot may have been, I do 
not know ; for the crocodile gave one leap of 
mortal agony, or surprise, and disappeared in 
the waters. But it was now my turn to be 
astonished. The river at this distance from the 
falls was not broader than three hundred yards, 
and we could see the whole shore of the opposite 
bank quite plainly. It had hitherto appeared 
to be a long brown line of mud, on which the 
sun shone dully. At the shot, the whole of this 
bank of the river, over the extent of at least a 
quarter of a mile, sprang into hideous life. . . . 
It could be no exaggeration to say that at least 
a thousand of the creatures had been disturbed 
at a single shot." Fancy the commotion among 
these unsuspecting saurians when Mr. Roosevelt 
gets them within range ! 

Mr. A. F. R. Wollaston, one of five men 
who made a trip into the Ruwenzori region of 
Central Africa in behalf of the Natural History 
department of the British Museum, recounts the 
story of the expedition in his book entitled 
" From Ruwenzori to the Congo." In spite of 
its being the work of a naturalist, it gives us, 
with some impressions of the scenery and ac- 
counts of native customs, much about the " big 
game " sights. Mr. WoUaston's own words set 
us right about the aim of his book and the 
impressions which he brought from Africa. 
" Africa is a beast, it is true, but a beast of many 
and varied moods, often disagreeable and some- 



times even dangerous to body and soul ; but 
withal she has an attraction which can hardly 
be resisted, and when you have once come imder 
her spell you feel it a duty to uphold her reputa- 
tion. So I have attempted ... to convey 
something of the ' feel ' and smell of Africa as 
it appeared to me on hot and hilly roads, on 
winding waterways, and on cloud-girt mountain- 
sides. The book contains no tales of thrilling 
adventures and hairbreadth escapes, nor are there 
records of ' bagged' elephants and lions." Of 
the " sleeping sickness " in the Congo region 
the author makes this observation : " It is a 
lamentable fact, but one which cannot be gain- 
said, that civilization must be held responsible 
in no small degree for the spread of sleep- 
sickness during the last few years. In the old 
days, when every tribe and almost every village 
was self-sufficient, and had no intercourse with 
its neighbors except in the way of warfare, it 
might very well happen that the disease became 
localized in a few districts, where its viru- 
lence became diminished. Nowadays, with the 
opening-up of the country, the constant passage 
of Europeans travelling from one district to 
another, and the suppression of native warfare, 
it is becoming increasingly easy for natives to 
move beyond the limits of their own country, 
and by this means sleeping sickness is spread 
from one end of the country to another." We 
do not recall any other writer who suggests that 
this dreaded disease is contagious or infectious. 
The author speaks ill of the government of much 
of Central Africa and well of the Belgic govern- 
ment of the Congo. Few books of travel have 
more delightful and instructive photographic 
reproductions than this volume. 

" The Heart of Central Africa " is mainly an 
account of a journey made in 1907, by Mr. 
John M. Springer and his wife, missionaries of 
the Methodist Episcopal Church, across Africa 
from Umtali on the East Coast to St. Paul de 
Loanda on the West Coast. Missionaries as a 
rule are an intelligent class of persons who 
derive their information at first hand during a 
long residence in the land they describe. Very 
naturally, their view is that of the forward- 
looking hope to one divine event — the conver- 
sion of the benighted native ; but too often their 
views are befogged by the hope. Such, however, 
is not Mr. Springer's case. His journey taught 
him that the mineral wealth of Central Africa 
and the missionary opportunity are closely 
related. When the railroads connect the 
Southern and the Northern Coasts, and the 
Eastern and Western lands are linked, the great 



366 



THE DIAL 



[June 1, 



mineral wealth will be opened to the world — a 
wealth that may prove equal to, if not eclipse, 
that of Johannesburg. Such an event will make 
a " strategic centre for evangelistic activities." 
When these railroads are built, the fight with 
the traders, "those unprincipled convicts and 
their class who have dealt in slaves, and rubber, 
and rum," and who have sent " their emissaries 
throughout the country disseminating the most 
atrocious lies," will have to seek new pastures 
or new wilds. Mr. Springer's account of the 
mineral resources of this rapidly developing 
continent, of the railroad problems, and of the 
missionary efforts, makes an entertaining and 
instructive addition to our knowledge of the now 
no longer Dark Continent. 

" This is a most irritating book to read " — 
so Major F. G. Guggisberg affirms of the book 
entitled " We Two in West Africa," written by 
himself and his wife, Decima Moore. The 
Major, as an old inhabitant of the Gold Coast, 
and his wife, a new-comer who saw the novelty 
of things, were both determined to write down 
their separate impressions. A compromise was 
reached, so that, as he says, " Throughout the 
book my wife talks — I write." The result is 
not unpleasing to the reader, and is satisfactory, 
we trust, to the authors. Quite naturally, a 
part, of the volume is devoted to the ever- 
captivating subject of gold ; but in these days 
of modern machinery and the systematic work- 
ing of the mines, the old romantic flavor and 
the thrilling experiences of the early adventurers 
have gone their unromantic way. But Africa 
is still an abiding place of the curious and the 
imusual. These are the things which apparently 
most interested the Major's determined wife, 
and which make up a large part of the book. 
A distinctive feature lies in the recounting of 
the native folk-lore in the vernacidar. Readers 
of folk-lore will find a striking resemblance 
between these Gold Coast tales and our own 
Southern folk-tales. It would be unjust to the 
authors of this book to compare it with Miss 
Kingsley's " West African Studies," but it has 
enough merit of its own — though of a very 
personal kind — to commend it as a worthy 
addition to our well-filled shelf of books on 
Africa. 

Few travel-books are more attractive in their 
make-up than the volume entitled " Travels in 
the Far East." The author, Mrs. Ellen M. H. 
Peck, of Milwaukee, who is also the publisher 
of the book, has apparently expended more 
money than most authors who publish their own 
works. Cover, type, paper, and illustrations 



are excellent and illuminating. Minor adjec- 
tives of praise, too, may be applied to Mrs. 
Peck's story of her nine months' tour through 
Egypt, India, Burma, Ceylon, Java, Siam, 
China, Japan, Manchuria, and Korea. The 
account of her journey — one of the established 
" Round the World " tours — recounts nothing 
new, but it is enlivened at times by the personal 
observations of the author. Her remarks on the 
condition of womankind in the Orient testify 
sufficiently that Mrs. Peck has a keen interest 
in whatever affects woman. The work can 
hardly be caUed an illuminated guide-book, 
though it records her journey in the form of an 
itinerary of her daily experiences, recounted in 
letters home to her daughter. The reader will 
will not find an excess of detail nor a burden of 
historical facts, but he will find enough of both 
to appreciate Mrs. Peck's progress. Above all, 
he will take delight in the numerous well-made 
photographic reproductions. 

Dr.T.L.Pennell, whose book entitled "Among 
the Wild Tribes of the Afghan Frontier " is com- 
mended in an introduction by no less an authority 
than Lord Roberts, was for sixteen years a med- 
ical missionary, in charge of a medical station at 
Bannu, on the Northwest Frontier of India. Dr. 
Pennell has, indeed, made an unusually inter- 
esting and intelligent book. Whatever theme 
he may write about, be it the Afghan character, 
Afghan traditions, a Frontier valley, a missionary 
trip, an Afghan football team, Afghan women, 
the faqirs, or his special theme the medical mis- 
sions, he writes with such vivid force that the 
reader does not tire of his minuteness of partic- 
ulars and details. His long experience and his 
acute observations again prove that missionaries 
who turn their hand to serious composition have 
a decided advantage in setting forth the pecu- 
liar customs and the marked characteristics of 
a little-known people. Those parts of the book 
dealing with the native superstitions and tra- 
ditions and customs are the most interesting to 
the lay reader. Dr. Pennell cites some inter- 
esting cases as showing the power of charms 
over the untutored Afghans, — although he 
does not comment on its relation to the modern 
civilized notion of the mind cure. " On more 
than one occasion," he writes, " I have foimd 
my prescriptions made up into charms, the 
patient believing that this would be more effi- 
cacious than drinking the hospital medicines ; 
in fact, one patient assured me that he had 
never suffered from rheumatism, to which he 
had previously been subject, after he had tied 
round his arm a prescription in which I had 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



367 



ordered him some salicylate of soda, although 
he had never touched the drug." It is no won- 
der that the Mullahs and faqirs grow rich in 
selling: charms! This readable and instructive 
work deserves a place with other books on 
Afghanistan, notably those by Paget and Mason, 
Holdich, Oliver, Warburton, Elsmie, and Ham- 
ilton ; and it will bear comparison with any of 
those named. 

After reading Major Percy E. Henderson's 
book, " A British Officer in the Balkans," with 
the sub-title " The Account of a Journey through 
Dalmatia, Montenegro, Turkey in Austria, 
Magyarland, Bosnia, and Hercegovina," one is 
astonished to find that nothing is said of war or 
rumors of war. Surely His Majesty's Officer, 
" late of the Indian Army," has left the fields 
of conflict for the tea-table ! Nevertheless, our 
astonishment does not end in disappointment, 
for it is decidedly pleasant to know that these 
lands have other attractions than tribal feuds 
and international complications. Readers who 
are interested in the trouble-breeding Balkans 
must look to other books, and to the news- 
papers ; Major Henderson's work will not 
appeal to them. But those who are more con- 
cerned with the domestic manners and the every- 
day life of the people in pleasure and business, 
will find the book replete with stories, incidents, 
and customs of a people who are now — unhap- 
pily — very prominent in the public eye. 

H. E. COBLENTZ. 



Through Garden Paths.* 



Emerson tells us that the rose speaks all 
languages, — which is a rather fortunate cir- 
cumstance, since all languages have been pressed 
into service in praise of this queenly flower. It 
would be interesting to see all that has been 
written about the rose collected in one alcove in 
some great library, where living members of its 
cult might gather on bright mornings to read 
its open secrets and study its esoteric mysteries, 
and where ghosts of dead rosarians might come 
on moonlight nights to find what had been 

* Roses and Rose-Growing. By Rose G. Kingsley. New 
York : The Macmillan Co. 

Children and Gardens. By Gertrude Jeykll. New York : 
Charles Scribner's Sons. 

Gardens, Past and Present. By K. J. Davidson. New York: 
Charles Scribner's Sons. 

A Summer Garden of Pleasure. By Mrs. Stephen Batson. 
Chicago: A. C. McClurg & Co. 

A Little Maryland Garden. By Helen Ashe Hays. New 
York : G. P. Putnam's Sons. 

The Home Garden. By Eben E. Rexford. Philadelphia: 
J. B. Lippincott Co. 



learned since their day. Miss Rose Kingsley 
offers her tribute to the flower whose name she 
bears, from the point of view of one bred in ah 
old garden, bringing to her task 

" Love far brought 
From out the storied past," 

and fostered by the beloved master of Eversley 
Rectory to whose old rose-book she makes a 
tender reference. She makes no claim to nov- 
elty for what she has to say ; but although the 
nomenclature of English and American rosa- 
rians is not always the same, she has written a 
book which ought to be equally helpful on both 
sides of the Atlantic. She is particularly to 
be thanked for her devotion to old-fashioned 
roses, and gives pleasant assurance that the roses 
of Tudor days are not quite lost. She claims 
acquaintance with Shakespeare's musk-rose, 
which has sometimes been declared to be no 
longer absolutely identifiable. The color plates 
in this book are exceptionally accurate and 
beautiful. 

Those of us who have marvelled at the vast 
stores of experience from which Miss Gertrude 
Jeykll has written the long list of garden-books 
that stand very much to her credit will find 
pleasure and illumination in her latest work, 
" Children and Gardens." In the pages which 
make us long for a second youth, she describes 
her own childhood, frankly placing the date of 
those happy years so far in the past as to allow 
more time than we had suspected for the accu- 
mulation of the wisdom she has shared so freely 
with her readers. No better book — none so 
good, indeed — could be placed in the hands of 
the children to whom the gardens of the future 
must look for care and preservation. Th6 
directions for beginners are clear and practical, 
the enthusiasm is infectious, and the pictures 
are altogether charming. The chapter on 
" Pussies in the Garden " is full of humor, and 
the pen-and-ink " elevations " and " plans " of 
Pinkie and the kittens are quite without rivals 
in contemporary art. 

We note with sincere regret that there are 
but two hundred and thirty-one pages in Mr. 
Davidson's admirable volume on " Gardens, 
Past and Present." It is so evident that the 
writer has not spent half of his knowledge in 
his chapters on the beginnings of English gar- 
dens — of old physic, and botanic gardens, and 
of the wonderful Wisley garden, which form 
the first part of the book. The second part is 
devoted to sensible and stimulating chapters on 
various forms of gardening — formal gardens, 
rose gardens, water gardens, herb gardens, rock 



368 



THE DIAL 



[June 1, 



gardens, bulb gardens, bog gardens, and wall 
gardens. The last chapter — which is the best 
of all, as last chapters ought to be — called 
" The Opportunities of the Year," goes far to 
make credible the words of the old song, 

" December 's as pleasant as May," 
since it gives quite as alluring a picture of winter 
shrubbery as it does of a midsummer brook. 

In " A Summer Garden of Pleasure," notice 
is taken of earliest spring and latest autumn 
flowers only in the most casual way — its author 
meaning real summer when she says summer. 
Mrs. Batson has set for herself the task of 
advising those who do not care for long bars of 
rest in the bright harmony of garden music, and 
has given sound counsel as to the attainment of 
this end. Her chapters are invitingly christened 
"Incoming Summer," "High Summer," "The 
Rout of August," and so on, with special dis- 
cussions on the plants to which the garden must 
chiefly look for help — iris, peonies, lilies, and the 
like. We can but sigh over the immense climatic 
advantages which England has over us, which 
are indicated in the text and emphasized in the 
thirty-one full-page illustrations in color after 
drawings by Osman Pittman. These trans- 
cripts of the loveliness of the rich and mellow 
English gardens give the greatest possible value 
to this thoroughly delightful book. 

In reading Miss Helen Ashe Hays's pretty 
volume entitled " A Little Maryland Garden," 
it is a bit disappointing to find that the garden 
she describes is a new one, made by a trans- 
planted Californian, with many backward long- 
ings for the luxuriant growth of the Far West ; 
whereas we had been led by the title to look for 
an embodiment of some of the countless charms 
that distinguish the ripe old gardens of Mary- 
land. The book is cleverly written and attrac- 
tively illustrated, and gives many a bit of 
garden-lore and many helpful words in advocacy 
of the culture of our native flowers. It would 
have been truer to type had it given us pictures 
of the gardens, generations old, that adorn the 
river farming communities, the mountain vil- 
lages, the old inland towns, the older colonial 
cities, and make the region veritably " the garden 
spot of America." 

From flower gardens to vegetable gardens is 
not a difficult transition, especially when it is 
" The Home Garden " that is treated, and by so 
capable a writer as Mr. Eben E. Rexford, whose 
newspaper and magazine articles on practical 
gardening have made him an authority for 
many years. Good sense, and long experience 
both in gardening and in writing, lie at the 



foundation of this helpful book. The chapters 
on exposures, soils, fertilizers, and drainage, are 
particularly valuable. The appetite is whetted 
by the author's chapters in praise of vegetables, 
and the day for the coming of the delicious 
summer fruits seems long delayed when one 
reads his description of this or that variety. 
Sara Andrew^ Shafer. 



Recent Fiction.* 



Among the younger English novelists there are 
none more promising than Mr. J. C. Snaith and Mr. 
John Galsworthy. Both of these men have already 
given evidence of exceptional quality and of the 
possession of marked individuality, and both are 
distinctly strengthening their grasp upon life and 
growing in expressive power. Mr. Snaith, in parti- 
ticular, has a way of surprising his readers by unex- 
pected turns and developments. His four novels — 
''Broke of Covenden," "Henry Northcote," "William 
Jordan, Junior," and " Araminta," the new one — 
are hard to reduce to a single formula, except under 
some such abstract terms as startling originality and 
penetrative insight, and it is not easy to think of 
them as proceeding from the same hand. The deli- 
cious comedy of manners which he has christened 
" Araminta " is about the last sort of thing we should 
have expected to follow " William Jordan, Junior," 
with its rarefied idealism. Here we have a story 
which is on the surface merely whimsical, a sort of 
literary frolic, and yet a story which leaves us with 
clean-cut impressions of at least six people, eccentric 
or affected, it may be, but undeniably real. The 
book has some degree of kinship with the later novels 
of Mr. Locke, and even more with Mr. Hewlett's 
" Halfway House," but it is by no means an imitation 
of anything. Its heroine is the daughter of a poor 
country parson, adopted and brought to London (on 
a chance) by her aunt, the Countess of Crewkerne, 
who is a most delightfully selfish and wicked and 
malicious and worldly old woman. When the girl 
appears, it is with this phrase of self-introduction, 
" My name is Araminta, but they call me Goose 
because I am rather a Sil-lay." We may as well 
say at once that she lives up to the descrip tion, for 

♦Araminta. By J. C. Snaith. New York : Moffat, Yard & Co. 

Fraternity. By John Galsworthy. New York: G. P. Put- 
nam's Sons. 

The Pilgrims' March. By H. H. Bashford. New York: 
Henry Holt & Co. 

Syrinx. By Lawrence North. New York : Duffleld & Co. 

The Inner Shrine. A Novel of To-day. New York: Harper 
& Brothers. 

The Chippendales. By Robert Grant. New York : Charles 
Scribner's Sons. 

A King in Khaki. By Henry Kitchell Webster. New York : 
D. Appleton & Co. 

The Girl AND the Bill. By Bannister Merwin. New York: 
Dodd. Mead & Co. 

The Story of Thyrza. By Alice Brown. Boston: The 
Houghton Mifflin Co. 

Wallace Rhodes. A Novel. By Norah Davis. New York: 
Harper & Brothers. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



369 



she has not an idea in her head, and is incapable of 
acquiring one. Pretty frocks and good things to eat 
are the highest objects of her ambition, and innocent 
wonder is a fairly complete description of her out- 
look upon society. But she is a beauty, and, what 
is more, the living image of her grandmother, whose 
portrait by Gainsborough is among the furnishings of 
her new home. Her romance, if such we may call it, 
is provided by the interest she excites in two elderly 
gentlemen who become rival aspirants for her hand, 
and in the handsome young artist (her childhood 
friend) who paints her portrait, falls in love with 
her, nobly resigns her to her wealthy and aristocratic 
claimant, and finally receives her back from him in 
the most surprising fashion. A Goose she remains 
from first to last, — a Featherbrain as she is alterna- 
tively styled, — and a Gainsborough portrait come to 
life, but she is more charming than most heroines of 
fiction, and the artist is clearly to be envied when 
he wins her. As for the Countess, she becomes in 
Mr. Snaith's hands a veritable triumph of character- 
ization, and almost as much may be said of Lord 
Cheriton, a survival from the age of dandies, whose 
unexpected generosity bestows both fortune and hap- 
piness upon the artist. 

Mr. Galsworthy's new novel is a much more 
serious affair than " Araminta." It is simply en- 
titled " Fraternity," and, knowing something of the 
author's methods and of the intensity of his social 
sympathies, we may discern a grim irony in that 
word. For fraternity, in any real sense, is far from 
being the social ideal of any of the vital figures that 
appear in the narrative ; its sole spokesman is the 
gentle but half-crazed philosopher who is writing a 
book on " Human Brotherhood," of which passages 
are given us from time to time to serve as a sort 
of Greek chorus. Here also is a master-stroke of 
irony, for this old man is the most futile of all Mr. 
Galsworthy's futile characters. The others are in 
various degrees such human beings as we imagine 
to be normal, creatures of wont and environment, 
shaped in distinct moulds, sharply individual, with 
only the dimmest recognition of the solidarity of 
mankind. There are two groups of people in this 
tale, one comfortable and well-to-do, respectable and 
decorous in outward bearing, the other sunk in the 
degradation that comes from mean surroundings and 
hopeless poverty. Both are objects of pity to the 
author, the former perhaps more so than the latter, 
if we may judge from his mordant comment upon 
the emptiness of their life, with its cowardly evasion 
of moral responsibility. These two groups become 
curiously interrelated in the course of the story, and 
its nexus is supplied by a random saying of the 
philosopher whose dream of human brotherhood 
has rapt him from the sphere of practical thought. 
" Each of us has a shadow in those places — in 
those streets." In this saying is the very pattern 
of Mr. Galsworthy's deeply-moving book. He has 
the true method of the artist, and knows how much 
more effective is reticence than demonstrative emo- 
tion. His picture of human misery, whether it be 



found in the home of wealth and refinement or in 
the tenement, is less a matter of description than of 
suggestion, and suggestion of so quiet and subtle a 
sort that its force is felt in our after-thought rather 
than at the moment of its introduction. The bur- 
den of suffering humanity weighs heavily upon the 
writer's soul, and he has in a remarkable degree the 
power of making others share it. The sum total of 
the effect is depressing beyond words, and in this 
we find the defect of Mr. Galsworthy's method. 
For life is not in reality of the monotonous drab 
that it seems to him, not even in the slums. The 
larger humanity of a Dickens — or, taking a modern 
instance, of a De Morgan — can find elements of 
cheer, and even of joyousness, in the most sordid 
shapes that life assumes. The author who obsti- 
nately refuses to see aught but wretchedness misses 
the highest artistic mark, and impedes the growth 
of the very sympathy that he seeks to stimulate. 
Mr. Galsworthy's books are not without a gleam of 
idealism, but it is a gleam too remote and wavering 
to save them from the legitimate accusation of 
pessimism. He should take a lesson from Ibsen, 
who diagnosed the diseases of modern society with 
a skill even more unerring, but whose faith in their 
ultimate cure shone steadfast throughout his work. 

" The Pilgrims' March," by Mr. H. H. Bashford, 
is the story of an ingenuous youth of artistic endow- 
ment, forced by his father's untimely death to cut 
short his education, and go into the tea business. 
His employer, a relative, takes the boy into his 
household, which is dominated by a spirit of intol- 
erant religiosity. Its members are all more or less 
devoted to lay preaching, missionaiy enterprise, and 
prayer-meetings, and have all the pet aversions of 
their kind, regarding with suspicion practically all 
forms of innocent recreation. They are kindly 
people, perfectly sincere in their prejudices, and the 
author describes their narrow ways of living without 
a trace of satire. The boy, being impressionable 
and easily stirred to emotion, yields to their influ- 
ence, " experiences religion," and is taken into the 
fold with rejoicing. But as he comes to a more 
complete self-realization, and the claims of art grow 
more insistent, he frees himself, although not with- 
out a struggle, from the prison-house. Emancipa- 
tion has its dangers for him, however, and the 
newly-acquired freedom almost becomes his moral 
undoing. His steps lead him to the very brink of 
folly, but he pulls himself up just in time to save 
himself from disaster. The psychological interest 
of this conflict between warring impulses is consid- 
erable, and constitutes the essential feature of what 
is, aside from that, a genial and warm-hearted study 
of life. The exposition is not altogether lucid, and 
the sentimental outcome is abrupt and rather puz- 
zling ; but one closes the book with genuine regret 
at parting from the agreeable company of people 
who occupy its pages. 

Mr. Lawrence North seems to be a new-comer 
among our fiction-makers, and his " Syrinx " is a 
novel that we have read with lively interest. . It is 



370 



THE DIAL 



[June 1, 



concerned with the doings of a group of irresponsi- 
ble beings who call themselves " the polite outcasts," 
who hold all that is conventional to be vieuxjeu, and 
who affect the eccentric and paradoxical in conversa- 
tion and demeanor. The leading spirit among them 
is a,prScieuse known as Aspasia, although she has a 
real name of the ordinary wholesome sort. When 
she first appears it is in the country, and she is 
quoting Sappho (in the original), being caught in 
the act by a wandering scholar who chances to 
come that way in his motor-car. What he sees is 
described as " a form very supple and so flowing in 
its lines as to disguise its real voluptuousness, a face 
of perverse attractiveness, very perfect save the 
mouth, which bespoke over-much emotionalism." 
Although a staid and mature scholar, whose ideas 
" the Germans revered and wrangled over," he suc- 
cumbs to the charm of the apparition, and the pair 
are soon speeding toward London in the car. The 
young woman is also a scholar, who earns her living 
by doing hack-work at the British Museum for a 
famous philologist, and who, in her conversation, 
" fenced lightly with Procopius, Apuleius, Philos- 
tratus, de Brantome, Casanova, certain works of 
Mendes, Mirbeau, Pierre Louys, and even the mys- 
terious volume of the Arab Sheikh Nef zaoui." After 
this statement, we are quite prepared to believe that 
'* her knowledge was as surprising as it was shame- 
less." The acquaintance thus begun ripens into 
intimacy, and has the natural consequence as far as 
the man is concerned. But he has numerous rivals, 
among them the sculptor who models his Syrinx 
upon Aspasia's beautiful lines, and in the end a still 
more elderly scholar carries her off in triumph. It 
is a sparkling tale, perfectly fantastic, diabolically 
clever, ornamented with descriptions that remind 
one of " Ouida " in her most opulent verbal moods, 
and with dialogue that recalls " The Green Carna- 
tion." Although the hero discovers that pursuit of 
a polite outcast brings bitterness in the end, he also 
learns that the zest of the game almost compensates 
for the final defeat. 

" The Inner Shrine " is an anonymous novel that 
has attracted considerable attention during the 
course of its serial publication, and occasioned 
numerous conjectures concerning its authorship. It 
is certainly a striking novel, although highly arti- 
ficial and even tricky. Its chief merits are clever- 
ness of invention and dramatic effectiveness ; its 
defects are found in its unconvincing characteriza- 
tions and its failure to make certain important 
features of the action seem plausible. We cannot 
accept even the leading figures as self-consistent 
personalities, and the others are hardly more than 
dummies. Directness of speech and a somewhat 
mystifying subtlety of feeling are the characteristics 
of the conversational interchange which constitutes 
the substance of the story. The heroine is a young 
Frenchwoman whose American husband squanders 
a fortune, and then takes his own life in a pretended 
duel. One of the numerous improbabilities we are 
required to accept is the widow's continuing belief 



that he was slain by his opponent, although the fact 
of his suicide is a matter of official record. The 
heroine, who has led a gay and irresponsible life in 
Paris, playing recklessly with the hearts of men, 
becomes suddenly sobered by the double loss of 
husband and fortune, and comes to America to earn 
her living and enter upon a new life. From this 
time on, we are expected to see in her a model of 
self-sacrificing devotion, a high-minded woman of 
the noblest type, and a worthy mate for the New 
York aristocrat who seeks through many chapters 
to make her his wife. This is a little difficult, con- 
sidering her past, which was certainly one of folly 
and indiscretion ; and it is at least poetic justice that 
her past should arise to confront her and wellnigh 
shatter her new hopes. That past is personified in 
the Frenchman who had been the indirect cause of 
her husband's suicide. He had slandered her in the 
Parisian days, and now, two years afterwards, he 
appears upon the scene in New York, and his 
curious code of honor forbids him to make honor- 
able reparation by confessing that he had lied. 
He is brought to such confession in the end, but we 
are given to understand that suicide is his only 
recourse after such a humiliation. Thus must he 
atone, be it observed, not for his earlier infamy, but 
for the later weakness of failing to maintain the false- 
hood that has all but ruined the woman's life. And 
because he at last does what the merest decency 
would dictate, we are supposed to admire his moral 
heroism and deplore his untimely taking-off. The 
mystery of the title given to this novel is not revealed 
until the close, and is found to involve another subtle 
point of honor, this time on the part of the woman. 
She has come to care for her American suitor, but 
upon the numerous occasions when he implores her 
to become his wife his plea is firmly denied. It 
turns out that this is because he has neglected to 
enforce his pleadings by the conventional " I love 
you " formula. He has stated the fact in indirect 
ways that place the matter beyond doubt, but he has 
not used the incantation. As soon as the magic 
phrase escapes his lips, the marble statue becomes 
the woman of flesh and blood. " There 's only one 
key that unlocks the inner shrine of all — the word 
you've just spoken. A woman knows nothing till 
she hears it." And thus the mystification ends, to 
the satisfaction of all parties concerned except the 
reader, who is left with a feeling that the mountain 
has brought forth a ridiculous mouse. 

If Mr. James had not already preempted " The 
Bostonians " for a title, Mr. Robert Grant might 
have had it for his new novel. It would have been 
an adequate title, and the novel would have been 
seen to live up to it. As it is, " The Chippendales " 
must serve, leaving the reader slowly to discover 
that he is being called upon to do much more than 
follow the fortunes of a particular family, that he is 
presented with a social document of rich and signifi- 
cant content, that, in short, he has before him an 
analysis, more minute and penetrating than has 
been previously made in a single volume, of the 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



371 



Boston which is a state of mind rather than the 
Boston which is a dot on the map of Massachusetts. 
Over-elaboration of detail will doubtless be charged 
against the writer, for he has filled no less than six 
hundred pages with the sayings and doings of a few 
Bostonians during the last two decades of the last 
century ; but the very minuteness and inclusiveness 
of his observation become in the end impressive on 
their own account, and do not obscure the broader 
lines in the plan of the picture. The Boston of 
which Judge Grant writes is the Boston of transition, 
when the old standards of conduct and thought felt 
the corroding influence of materialism, when wealth 
became potent and arrogant, when ideals that had 
once seemed excellent were relegated to the limbo of 
old-fogyism, and the survival of the fittest seemed to 
mean the triumph of the blatant and the mean. It 
is essentially a tragedy, and the author has a deep 
sense of the seriousness of his theme, although he 
treats it with good humor, and in the spirit of gently 
satiric comedy. We might almost call the book an 
allegory of the new England conscience, for, despite 
the firm and vital handling of the individuals whose 
interwoven fortunes provide the plot, that abstrac- 
tion is visioned for us from first to last, and we find 
no element of personal interest quite so strong as the 
interest which we take in the outcome of the conflict 
between that severe ideal and the lax easy-going 
ideals that beset it upon every hand. At first, the 
author seems inclined to make fun of the New 
England conscience, and we are a little worried lest 
his satirical bent have too free a rein. Henry 
Sumner, who is that conscience incarnate, is far 
from being a gracious hero of fiction at best, and 
in our early acquaintance with him, he seems prig- 
gish and a bit morbid in his development of self- 
consciousness. But there is steel in his character, 
and in the end he comes to command our almost 
unqualified admiration. The real vision of his 
strength is given us, not so much in the incidents of 
his career, in the causes which he champions, in the 
principles which regulate his conduct, as in his con- 
quest of Priscilla Avery, who derides him, inflicts 
wanton cruelties upon his sensitive nature, sometimes 
dislikes him in reality, and sometimes affects to dis- 
like him, yet is finally, by virtue of her own share 
in that inheritance of conscience which she cannot 
hold lightly if she will, constrained to find in him, 
not only an ally, but also an accepted lover. In this 
the most successfully-conceived of his heroines, the 
author has given us one of the finest studies of 
character-development to be found in American 
fiction. Having spoken of hero and heroine, the 
villain of the piece also calls for a word of comment. 
AH three of these terms smack of melodrama, and 
we would gladly avoid them were others available ; 
as it is, these must function. Our " villain," then, 
in the sense of being the embodiment of the evil 
influences that are at work to make Boston even 
as another city (or state of mind), is named Hugh 
Blaisdell, and is delineated with truly admirable art. 
Since the issues of this novel are moral and not 



physical, Blaisdell is in no sense a gross offender; 
he is simply common, callous, unimaginative, yet at 
the same time amazingly successful in the world 
of practical affairs. He is the very type of the 
"leading citizen," everywhere conspicuous in the 
public eye, associated with good works if they are 
good also for advertising purposes, a pattern of the 
domestic virtues, a pillar of church and state, and 
the despair of every civilization which has not gone 
wholly over to philistinism. Judge Grant's success 
in this case is no less marked than in the cases of 
his hero and his heroine. Those who read fiction 
for entertainment alone will not find their affair in 
"The Chippendales," and we doubt if the novel 
becomes a "best seller." But we have no doubt 
whatever that it is a contribution to our literature 
worth the attention of the thoughtful, and likely to 
be valued fifty years hence more highly than it will 
be valued to-day. 

Mr. Henry Kitchell Webster has a crisp method 
of story-telling that is very fetching in a writer who 
aims at nothing more than entertainment. He 
wastes no words in getting at the heart of a situa- 
tion, and he takes care that his plots shall not be too 
complicated for lucidity. His scheme is evidently 
prepared in advance, and worked out with logical 
progression. " A King in Khaki " is a case in point. 
It is the plain and vivid account of the successful 
management of a tropical plantation on an island 
somewhere in the West Indies. The manager, who 
is the " King " of the island, has brought the enter- 
prise to prosperity, and sends a glowing report of 
its success to the directory in New York. But this, 
it seems, is not what is wanted, for a financial pirate 
is in control at headquarters, who has devised a plan 
for making the stock seem worthless until the orig- 
inal subscribers shall have been frozen out. He 
comes to the island, offers the manager a choice 
between corrupt connivance with the plan and sum- 
mary dismissal, and finds that he has a determined 
antagonist to deal with instead of a willing tool. 
The manager hits upon the beautiful plan of holding 
the magnate in captivity, and going to New York 
himself to publish the facts and protect the stock- 
holders. The plan develops some unexpected fea- 
tures, resulting from the fact that the magnate is 
accompanied by his daughter, with whom the 
" King " promptly falls in love. But it works out to 
the right conclusion, leaving no very hard feelings 
on either side. Incidentally, the buried treasure of 
" Calico Jack," a pirate of the older fashion who 
had once made the island his retreat, is unearthed, 
and provides the means whereby our hero indirectly 
accomplishes his purpose. 

Mr. Bannister Merwin, formerly associated with 
Mr. Webster in sundry romantic inventions, also has 
a new story of his very own. It is called "The 
Girl and the Bill," and is a breathless tale of the 
exciting things that happened to Robert Orme of 
New York during a two days' sojourn in Chicago. 
In the first chapter, he sees a girl in an automobile, 
and buys a new hat, receiving a five dollar bill in 



372 



THE BIAJL 



[June 1, 



his change. Tliese s^^iu simple enough mcident&, 
bat xhej snffiee to plunge him stnughtwav into a 
wfairi of adrmtiirtt. For the girl is the daughter of 
the Secr^ianr of State, and the bill has directions 
which rereal the hidinf^'flaee of a stolen document — 
the draft of a trea^ between die United States and 
GuiiiiBiiy whieh most be dieeoTned and signed by 
midiui^ of tlie next dav. Now it happens that 
Bnudl Mid J^Mtfi are opposed to the making of this 
traetyv and Uteir diplomatic representatives are on 
tke spott prepared to hesitate at nothing. The two 
davs are crowded with lirely incidents, including 
hold-aps. abductions, the wild racing of motor ears, 
jhi-jitsa, a spirit«^anee, a narrow eeeape from suffo- 
cation in a refrigentor, and aoeh-like diversions. 
But all the maehinatiwag of tiie allied villains come 
to DM^rt, and the two davs are quite enough to 
eon^nee baro and heroine that they were made for 
one anather. Hie treaty gets signed in the nick of 
tirae. and its foes slink away discomfited. 

"'The Story of Thyrxa" is a more s^^nifieant 
work than has hitherto come from the pen of Miss 
Alice Brown. It begins simply enough, among the 
New England folk whom Miss Brown knows so 
well, and whoee humors she has so deftly and sym- 
patheticalty diaraeterized in times past. Thvrza is 
a chikl wheak we make her aeqnaintance, and the 
miniature ecHnedies and tragedies of childhood make 
op the first half of her stoty. She is an engaging 
child, natural and oonrincing, seemingly fitted into 
her enyironment. bat in reality set aput from her 
assoeiatee by a gift of originality which amounts 
almost to genius. Her life, outwardly like that of 
other children, is fed from within upon springs of 
whidi ahn alone has the aeeret. The dream-life of 
remance wlueh hnegiMtion shapes for her is sud- 
daily ew fe it ed into the rtvnest of reality when a 
▼Olage swain, a eommonplaee youth whom her fancy 
has idealiied, betrays her innocent trust, and noakes 
h^ the mother of an illegitimato child. When she 
realizes the consequences of her misplaced confi- 
dence^ she aeeepts them unflinchingly, refusing to 
euo^ptuBHe with society, or to conceal anght sare 
the ideadity of her betrayer. This despicable oeor 
ture, idio marries her sister, lives in constant fear 
of etpu a i i i e. little knowing dw sliaigth of resofai* 
taon diat binds her. for the aster's sake, to guard 
the aeer^ Keeping her maiden name, she brings 
np her tiuUL, sappcvting him by the severest toil, and 
has the sattafaction of seeing him through collie, 
and standing apon the threshold of active life, a fine 
eaEmple of manhood. The hardest of her trials 
UNuea when the son. to whom the vision of love has 
been mrreiled. implores her for the sake of his 
^■nfni" f 'F to aasnme the title of a married woman. 
Bat eren his plea cannot prevail over the resolution 
which has made her attitode toward life, not indeed 
one of defiance of the social law, but one of uncom- 
promising acceptance of the full consequences of her 
girlhood fault. Fortunately, the girl in question is 
bniod^unded enough to demand no such sacrifice of 



principle. In the end. a sort of mellow sunshine 
falls upon Thyrra's life, when she marries, upon his 
death-bed, the old friend who had guided her child- 
hood stops upon the j>athway of knowledge, and 
who, knowing her story, has remained devoteil to 
her through all the intervening years. She has kept 
the faith : she has not darkeneil the lives of those 
nearest and dearest to her : she has paid in full her 
own debt to society ; she has won. after a struggle 
that we ean but dimly apprehend, a sort of spiritual 
peaee. As the tragic issues of this simple story 
become more and more evident, the author keeps 
level with the height of her argument, and her 
work grows increasingly impressive. The compli- 
cation is one which might easily result in a false 
stop, but the author's stop remains assured from 
first to last. 

The situation offered for our delectation in 
" Wallace Rhodes," a novel by Miss Norah Davis, 
is not easy to describe in ordinarj- terms, and we 
will resort to a quasi-diagrammatic exposition. There 
are four principal characters : A (a devoted father), 
B (his devoted son), C (a young woman more or less 
besmirched by slanderous tongues'), and D (a second 
young woman who is a designing creature). When 
the story opens, B, who has narrowly esca|>ed the 
allurements of D, becomes engaged to C. This is 
a horrid revelation to A, who thereupon resolves to 
save the boy by alienating C's affections from him. 
B is sent away on business, and A improves the 
opportunity, succeeding only too well, for he per- 
suades C to marry him. B returns, and there is a 
stormy scene between father and son. ending in A's 
pledge to keep C for a year, and then relinquish her 
to B, if the latter so desires. As the year goes by, 
it is marked by the development of a genuine love 
between A and C. while B. recovering from the blow, 
renews his allegiance to D. This releases A from 
his pledge, but he has so supersensitive a conscience 
that he bestows the family estate upon B and D, 
utterly ignoring C's wishes, although he is supposed 
to loye her devotedly. Toward the end. B gets tired 
at his engagment with D, and discovers that C is the 
real object of his affections. But the latter will have 
none of his philanderings, and remains faithful to A. 
B and C are then duly married, and, we trust, become 
duly miserable. The scene of this preposterous story 
is a Southern plantation on the Mississippi River. It 
is skilfully constructed, and shows not a little com- 
mand of novelistic technique. But no technical 
merits could make such a plot convincing, or awaken 
much sympathy for any of the persons concerned. 
WnxiAM MoBTOK Payne. 



It was a happy thought of Mr. Alfred Noyes 
to compile an anthology of fairy poetry, and an even 
happier thought to name it " The Magic Casement." A 
charmingly fanciful introductioD, in which the editor 
unblushingly avows his belief in fairies, serves to whet 
the appetite for the feast that foUows. Messrs. E. P. 
Dutton & Co. are the publishers of this delightful book. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



nt 



VABiors Books tok Summzs REASDrc ! 




374 



THE DIAL 



[June 1, 



ciations with the Jardin des Plantes, where his artist 
father used to go to model the animals. M. Cains's 
conspicuous merit is his ability to keep off the paths 
beaten out by the guide-books ; and wherever he 
conducts his readers he reveals new interests in 
unlikely places. 

A woman's toit ^^^^ than one amateur farmer has 
and enterprise found agriculture very pretty in 
on the farm. theory, but hard and unlovely in 
practice. Mrs. Kate V. St. Maur, in <' The Earth's 
Bounty " (Macmillan), pleasantly relates her own 
somewhat exceptional experience in farming for 
pleasure, and incidentally for profit. Or the hope 
of profit may have been something more than a 
subsidiary inducement to abandon city pavements 
and get back to nature and to mother earth. At 
any rate, the working of a twelve-acre farm, which 
was later much increased in size, evidently proved 
profitable, and the narrative leaves the impression 
that the enterprise had also all the charm of novelty. 
Not only cattle and crops were raised, but violets 
were cultivated for the winter market, a flock of 
Angora goats was made to yield handsome returns, 
quail were produced for the home table and for the 
market, and various other enterprises were lucra- 
tively handled by the writer and her corps of assist- 
ants. A literary husband, with a tendency to 
excessive application when the fine frenzy of author- 
ship was upon him, yielded to his wife's seductive 
arts and occasionally lent a hand in the less gross 
and prosaic forms of rural toil. The whole story 
has a satisfying effect of verity, and nearly all the 
advice to the reader is based on personal experience, 
though some general principles of forestry have been 
repeated from authorities. The illustrations are 
many and good, and the print excellent. An index 
would have been useful. 



Mr. Bradford Torrey, in his In- 
ftaluut/arlc. troductory Note to Mr. Wright's 

"Birds of the Boston Public Garden" 
(Houghton), quotes the reply of a noted ornitholo- 
gist to a bird-student who asked where to look for 
a rare Warbler: "Go to Central Park, New York." 
Central Park has many printed records of its birds, 
and Chicago has its little volume on "Wild Birds in 
City Parks." It is time, therefore, that the beauti- 
ful Boston Public Garden should have its catalogue 
of birds, and Mr. Wright has done wisely in pub- 
lishing in book form the results of his nine years of 
observation there. The opening chapter tells when 
bird migrations occur, what species have appeared 
each spring from 1900 to 1908, and gives lists of 
those observed on maximum days, which in the 
years named have fallen from May 12 to May 20. 
Especially interesting are the records that show that 
certain species of the migrants are likely to make 
stop-overs, staying from two to seven or even more 
days in places as well adapted to their tastes as the 
Garden. A list of one hundred and sixteen birds 
which the author has observed in the nine years 
forms the principal part of the compact volume, and 



as the title suggests, is given not for general descrip- 
tive purposes, but as the record of feathered visitants 
actually seen in the Garden. Several dainty pho- 
togravures of rare trees in the Garden ornament the 
book. 

Fishing in ^^- ^- ^- Aflalo's book entitled 

California " Sunset Playgrounds " (Scribner) 

and Canada. gives primarily the story of fishing 
days, and others, in California and Canada. The 
author, an Englishman, travelled his fifteen thousand 
miles with intent to catch a tuna in the waters 
around Catalina Island, off San Pedro, California ; 
but only to find that this great gama-fish was not at 
that time at home. Other fish, however, in a 
measure satisfied his piscatorial desires sufficiently 
to permit his eulogizing the island. At Trout Lake, 
or Fish Lake, in the heart of the Long Lake Forest 
Reserve, between the Coast Range and the Selkirks, 
the writer found his best fishing in Canada. No 
reservations need be made in lauding Mr. Aflalo as 
a thorough-going, sportsmanlike fisherman. He 
delights in light tackle and a small catch, and glories 
in the environment of natural beauty of forest and 
stream. After the memories of Tabor and Catalina 
in the States, and Trout Lake in Canada, the author 
is led to say that "the fishing at home, which of 
yore gave such keen delight, seems tame," and that 
his travels in two such lands gave him " some of the 
most sensational fishing in a fishful life." 



BRIEFER MENTION. 



The increasing popularity of the Canadian Rockies 
as a pleasure-ground makes timely the third edition of 
Mr. Walter Dwight Wilcox's " Camping in the Canadian 
Rockies " (Putnam). The new edition, which has been 
largely rewritten and the illustrations for which have 
been increased by half, is entitled "The Rockies of 
Canada." It is a large octavo volume, with the finest 
of photogravure plates to enlist the reader's interest in 
the wonderful scenery of the region described. Mr. 
Wilcox was one of the pioneer pleasure-seekers to 
explore and photograph the country. His mountain- 
eering experiences now extend over twenty years, and 
his account of them, with the views, gives a compre- 
hensive picture of the mountains and the mountain 
lakes, which constitute one of the rarest beauties of the 
region. 

The approaching Summer always brings a revival of 
interest in wild flowers, and, by way of satisfying it, a 
new crop of popular manuals, each with its own partic- 
ular royal road to the quick and easy knowledge of 
names and varieties. One of the latest is a " Practical 
Guide to the Wild Flowers and Fruits," by Dr. George 
Lincoln Walton (Lippineott). It contains very brief 
descriptions of four hundred flowers and over one hun- 
dred fruits. Its distinctive features are, first, the treat- 
ment of flowers and fruits in the same volume, and, 
second, the charts, based on color for large groups, and, 
for the smaller ones, on simple obvious distinctions of 
leaf and flower arrangement and flower form. These 
charts are supplemented by a few colored illustrations 
and a large number of small but clear and useful line- 
drawings. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



375 



Notes. 



George Eliot's " Scenes of Clerical Life " is a new 
volume in the " World's Classics," published by Mr. 
Henry Frowde. 

A volume containing three of Mr. John Gralsworthy's 
plays, — " Joy," « Strife," and « The Silver Box," — is 
announced for immediate publication. 

" Macbeth " and " Romeo and Juliet," both prettily 
illustrated, are now added to the " Lamb Shakespeare 
for the Young " by Messrs. Duffield & Co. 

"Thais," translated by Mr. Robert B. Douglas, is 
the latest addition to the works of M. Anatole France 
in English, as published by the John Lane Co. 

A " High School Course in Latin Composition," by 
Messrs. Charles McCoy Baker and Alexander James 
Inglis, is a recent publication of the Macmillan Co. 

Owing to a delay in importing the desired paper, the 
Houghton Mifflin Co. have been obliged to postpone 
until Autumn the publication of their Riverside Press 
edition of Walton's " Compleat Angler." 

" Under the Deodars " is the title of a volume of 
reprinted stories, sixteen in number, by Mr. Rudyard 
Kipling. It is a volume that includes many old favorites, 
and is published in their Pocket Edition of Kipling's 
Works, by Messrs. Doubleday, Page & Co. 

A new impression of Roget's " The Sources of English 
Words and Phrases " is sent us by Messrs. Longmans, 
Green, & Co. This standard work, dating originally 
from the middle of the last century, preserves its use- 
fulness remarkably well. 

It is announced that Mr. Maurice Hewlett has writ- 
ten a continuation of his latest novel, "The Halfway 
House." Senhouse is the hero of the sequel, and " The 
Open Road " is being considered for its title. The book 
wUl be published early in the Fall. 

Leslie Stephen's " The Playground of Europe " is 
one of the classics of Alpine literature, and we are glad 
to see it brought to the attention of a later generation in 
a new edition. It is published by the Messrs. Putnam in 
a style uniform with Stephen's other reprinted writings. 

The Houghton Mifflin Co. have just completed the 
publication of their Warwickshire edition of George 
Eliot's works. It is complete in twenty-five volumes, 
finely illustrated in photogravure from photographs and 
from drawings by leading English artists. The biog- 
raphy by Cross is included in the edition. 

A volume of " English Prose, 1137-1890," edited by 
Professor John Matthews Manly, is published by Messrs. 
Ginn & Co. It is a companion volume to the "English 
Poetry " of Messrs. Bronson, Dodge, and Manly, and is 
intended to supply students with a considerable quantity 
of selected prose to be read in connection with the study 
of English literature. 

Messrs. Sturgis & Walton publish an edition of 
Bulwer's "The Lost Tales of Miletus." Just what 
encouragement they have had for this venture, or what 
readers they expect to reach, are unexplained matters, 
for Bulwer the poet has become a negligible quantity in 
English literature, but here the book is, and one might 
do worse than give an hour to its pages. 

The American Book Co. send us Mr. William J. 
Milne's « Standard Algebra " and Dr. Alvin Davison's 
" The Human Body and Health." From Messrs. D. C. 
Heath & Co. we have « The High School Word Book," 
by Mr. R. L. Sandwick and Miss Anna T. Bacon. 
Messrs. B. H. Sanborn & Co. publish " A Secondary 



Arithmetic, Commercial and Industrial," by Messrs. 
John C. Stone and James F. Millis. Finally, Messrs. 
Ginn & Co. have added " Readings in English History," 
by Professor Edward P. Cheyney, and a first volume of 
" Readings in Modern European History," by Professors 
James H. Robinson and Charles A. Beard, to their 
well-known series of source-books. 

The death, a year or two ago, of Mr. Wendell 
Phillips Grarrison, for forty years the editor of " The 
Nation " of New York, following that of Mr. Godkin, 
its famous political writer, is now followed by the sud- 
den death of Mr. Hammond Lamont, who succeeded 
Mr. Garrison in the editorial conduct of the paper. 
Mr. Lamont was forty-five years of age; a graduate 
of Harvard, and a journalist and educator of ability 
and experience. He is succeeded by Mr. Paul Elmer 
Moore, the well-known essayist, and latterly a leading 
writer for " The Nation." 

"Class-Room Libraries for Public Schools," now 
issued in its third edition by the Buifalo Public Library, 
is a pamphlet of 166 large, double-column pages, the 
contents of which show good judgment and admirable 
care in editing. There is first a graded list, for the nine 
grades of the public school system, then an author and 
title index, next a subject index, after that a list of 
reference books, and, finally, a selection of books con- 
taining stories about children and poetry about children 
(for the use of teachers and parents). The whole must 
prove useful to both pupils and instructors, and wiU 
bring the public library into closer affiliation with the 
public schools. 

The Essex Book and Print Club is a publishing society 
recently organized in historic old Salem (Mass.) for the 
purpose of " reprinting rare volumes relating to the 
history or the literature of Essex County, Massachusetts ; 
the publication of suitable unprinted material ; and the 
reproduction of rare views, portraits and maps." The 
first volume issued is the Rev. Francis Higginson's 
" New Englands Plantation " together with " The Sea 
Journal and Other Writings" of the same devoted 
" Minister of the Plantation at Salem in the Massachu- 
setts Bay Colony." A facsimile of the first and a reprint 
of the enlarged third edition are given, besides the " Sea 
Journal " and a few other short pieces relating to the 
settlement at Salem. The book is handsomely made, 
at the Riverside Press, for members of the Club. 

The following are the latest German text-books: 
" Modern German Prose " (Holt), compiled by Pro- 
fessor A. B. Nichols; Schiller's "Die Jungfrau von 
Orleans " (American Book Co.), edited by Dr. Warren 
Washburn Florer; a " Brief German Grammar " (Ginn), 
by Professor Roscoe J. Horn and Arthur N. Leonard; 
and Emil Frommel's " Mit Ranzel und Wanderstab " 
(Heath), edited by Dr. Wilhelm Bernhardt. Some new 
French texts are the following: Henri de Bornier's 
" La Fille de Roland " (Heath), edited by Professor 
C. A. Nelson; "Lectures et Conversations" (Jenkins), 
by MM. Dubois and De Geer; an abridgment of 
Gabriel Compayr^'s " Yvan Gall " (Holt), edited by Pro- 
fessor O. B. Super ; and " Pens^es et Reflexions de La 
Bruyfere et Autres Auteurs Franqais " (Jenkins), com- 
piled by Miss Cornelia Sisson Crowther. We also note 
that Professor E. Lauvrifere has edited Alfred de 
Vig^y's Chatterton " (Frowde) for the " Oxford Higher 
French Series," and that to the " Classiques Fran^ais 
(Putnam) have been added two charming volumes of 
poetry, a selection from Boileau edited by M. Augustin 
Filon, and one from Hugo edited by M. L. Aguettant. 



376 



THE DIAL 



[June 1, 



Topics in TLiEADrNG Periodicals. 

June, 1909. 



Actors, Passing: of Great. W. P. Eaton. Munsey. 
Air, Conquest of the . Ck)unt Zeppelin. Putnam. 
Air, The : Our True Highway. F. P. Lahm, Putnam. 
Alaska-Yukon-Pacific Exposition. Review of Reviews. 
American Architecture, Democracy in. Craftsman. 
American Business Man, The. A. Barton Hepburn. Century. 
American Holiday, An. William Orr. A tlantic. 
American Men, Faults of. Anna H. Rogers. Atlantic. 
American Millionaire, The. Q. K. Chesterton. Hampton. 
American Painters of Outdoors. G. Edgerton. Craftsman. 
Americanizing Europe. E. A. Steiner. Review of Reviews. 
Animal Mind, The. E. T. Brewster. McClure. 
Architecture, History in. C. M. Price. Craftsman. 
Argentina. The New. Paul S. Reinsch. World To-day. 
Artist's Life, Story of — I. H. O. Tanner. World's Work. 
Atterbury, Grosvenor, Theory of. Craftsman. 
Augsburg, Romantic. R. H. Schaufaer. Century. 
Baseball Games, Crises in. H. S. Fullerton. Amei-ican. 
Benson, Frank W., Art of. Charles H. CaflBn. Harper. 
Biology, Teaching. Benj. C. Gruenberg. Atlantic. 
Camp, A, for Business Men. W. Talbot. World's Work. 
Casualty Insurance for all Needs. World's Work. 
Child Laborer, Plea of. A. H. Ulm. JVorth Amei-ican. 
Church and Education. Shailer Mathews. World To-day. 
Church, the American, on Trial. I. H. C. Weir. Putnam. 
City EfHciency, A New Force for. World's Work. 
Cleveland and the Insurance Crisis. G. F. Parker. McClure. 
College Pedagogy, Problem of. Abraham Flexner. Atlantic. 
Competition in College. A. Lawrence Lowell. Atlantic. 
Court, A, that Saves. Mackenzie Cleland. World's Work. 
Cuba's Future. H.A.Austin. North American. 
Cuba, Road-making in. I. A. Wright. World To-day. 
Danube, The. Marie van Vorst. Harper. 
Darwin Centenary, The. Benj. E. Smith. Century. 
Defective Child, Conserving the. M. H. Carter. McClure, 
Diamonds, The Two Largest. G. F. Kunz. Century. 
Fames, Mme., to the Opera-going Public. Putnam. 
" Education," Bankruptcy of. F. Burk. World's Work. 
Education for Women, Higher. Mary K. Ford. Bookman. 
English Supremacy: Is it Worth War? J.P.Carr. World's Work, 
English, Wardour Street. Thos. R. Lounsbury. Harper, 
Eugenics. W.I.Thomas. Ameiican, 

Expert Evidence, Medical. A.T.Clearwater. North American. 
" Finishing " Schools. Reginald W. Kaufman. Hampton. 
Flying, What will Come After ? G. P. Serviss. Munsey. 
Forests, National, for Homes. J. L. Ellis. World To-day, 
French School Days, My. Laura S. Portor. Atlantic. 
Gambler's Chance, The, and the Penalty. World's Work, 
Garden, My. Emery Pottle. Craftsman. 
Garden, My Grandmother's. Mary M. Bray. Atlantic. 
Geneva and Calvin. J. M. Vincent. Review of Reviews. 
Germany's Weak Point. A. R. Colquhoun. North American. 
Gibbon, Edward. James Ford Rhodes. Scritmer. 
Gounod's Villa. Isabel Floyd-Jones. Putnam. 
Grenfell, Dr., in Labrador. Joseph B. Gilder. Century. 
Grotesque, Growing Appreciation of, in America. Craftsman. 
Hay, John : Making of a Diplomat. C. W. Moores. Putnam. 
Hays, WilletM. M. C. Judd. Review of Reviews. 
Health, The Way to. Irving Fisher. World's Work. 
Henry, O. Harry P. Steger. World's Work. 
Herrick, Robert, Novels of . W. D. Ho wells. North American. 
Horemheb, Tomb of. A. E. P. Weigall. Century. 
Income Needed for Marriage. T. N. Carver. Munsey. 
Ingres, Portraiture of. Frank Fowler. Scribner. 
Irrigation Congress, National. G. E. Barston. World To-day. 
Labrador, Experiences on the. W. T. Grenfell. Century. 
Lion, The Land of the — II. W. S. Rainsford. World's Work. 
Man, Future of, in America. C. R. Van Hise. World's Work. 
Manchester Ship Canal. J. P. Goode. World To-day. 
Mary Queen of Scots and Both well. L. Orr. Munsey. 
Mechanic, The American. G. W. Melville. North American. 
Mexico, Finances of. Charles F. Speare. Review of Reviews. 
Millionaire Business in America. M. Bacheller. Munsey. 
Modernism and the New Catholicism. C. A. Briggs. No. Amer, 
Napoleon's Death-Mask. S.Mays Ball. Putnam. 
Needlework Design, A. K. 8. Brinley. Crajtsman. 
Negro, The Unknowable. Harris Dickson. Hampton. 
Nestorian Tablet, A, for New York. F. V. Holm. Putnam. 
Newspaper, The Best, in America. C. H.Grasty. World's Work, 
New York, Godlessness of. Ray S. Baker. American. 
Novelist's Allegory, The. John Galsworthy. Atlantic, 
Phrase-Maker, The. Anne C. E. AUinson. Atlantic. 
Plant Hunter's Travels, A. Owen Wilson. World's Work. 



Plaster House with Roof Garden. U. N. Hopkins. Craftsman. 

Potter, Louis. M. Irwin MacDonald. Craftsman. 

Poverty, Abolition of. J. Laurence Laughlin. Scribner. 

Preparatory Schools, Boys'. World's Work. 

Railroad Laws, Incongruous. 8. O. Dunn. World To-day, 

RhodesScholars, Our, at Oxford. G.R. Parkin. No. American. 

Rowand, Archibald H. W. G. Beymer. Harper. 

Saint-Gaudens, Augustus, Reminiscences of. Century. 

School, The Public, and the Home. Craftsman. 

Seattle. R. A. Ballinger. Review of Reviews. 

Shakespeare in the Holy Land. J. O. LaGorce. World To-day. 

Sherman, General, Personal Letters of — III. Scribner. 

Shipyard, The. Thornton Oakley. Harper. 

Shoes and the Tariff . Ida M. Tarbell. American. 

Socialism and Liberty. John Spargo. North American. 

Socialism of G. Lowes Dickinson. Paul E. More. Atlantic. 

Speaker, The Power of the. Joseph G. Cannon. Century. 

Stamps, Mrs. Mary Humphreys. Grace King. Century. 

Stevenson's Prayer-Book. Richard Burton. North American. 

Strathcona, Lord. T. Robertson. Munsey. 

Straus and Turkey's Crisis. L. E. Van Norman. Rev. of Rev*. 

Swinburne and the Swinbumians. H. T. Peck. Bookman. 

Taft, President, and His Three Brothers. Munsey. 

Taft, President, on Organized Labor. McClure. 

Taft, President, Opportunity of. Wm. G. Brown. Century. 

Tammany's Control of New York. G. K. Turner. McClure. 

Time-Clock, The. Jonathan T. Lincoln. Atlantic. 

Trees, Big, Saving the. F. Strother. World's Work. 

Turkey, Land of Massacres. L. G. Leary. World To-day. 

Turkey, Present-day. S. Tonjoroft. World To-day. 

Turkish Village, A. H. G. Dwight. Scribner. 

Turkish Women, Educating. Mrs. C. R. Miller. World To-day. 

Venice, The Meaning of. Wm. Roscoe Thayer. Atlantic. 

War of 1812, The. G. W.Wingate. North American. 

Water, the Fuel of the Future. J. L. Mathews. Hampton. 

Welles, Gideon, Diary of — V. Atlantic. 

Whitman, Walt. Elizabeth L. Keller. Putnam. 

Wickersham, Attorney-General. W. 8. Bridgrman. Munsey. 

Wilderness, Battle of the — I. Morris Schaff. Atlantic. 

Wilhelmina of Holland. T. Schwarz. Munsey. 

Woman Problem, The — II. Ouida. Lippincott. 

Woman's Suffrage, Mr. Dooley on. F. P. Dunne. American. 

Women of the Circus. Hugh C. Weir. Hampton. 

Wood-Carving, Design in. K. von Rydingsvard. Craftsman. 

Yahgans, The. Charles W. Furlong. Harper. 

Zuloaga, Ignacio. J. W. Pattison. World To-day. 



IiiST OF New Books. 



[The following list, containing 110 titles, includes books 
received by The Dial since its last issue.'\ 

BIOGRAPHY AND REMINISCENCES. 
Georgre Canning and His Friends : Containing Hitherto 

Unpublished Letters, Jeux d'Esprit, etc. Edited by Josceline 

Bagot. In two vols., with frontispieces in photogravure, 

8vo. E. P. Dutton & Co. $9. net. 
Haremlik : Some Pages from the Life of Turkish Women. By 

DemetraVaka. 12mo, pp.275. Houghton Mifflin Co. $1.25 net. 
The liOve Afifairs of Napoleon. Trans, from the French of 

Joseph Turquan by J. Lewis May. Hlus. in photogravure, 

etc., 8vo, pp. 378. John Lane Co. $5. net. 
Robert Y. Hayne and His Times. By Theodore D. Jervey. 

Hlus., 8vo, pp. 554. Macmillan Co. $3. net. 
The Bancrofts ; Recollections of Sixty Years. By Marie and 

Squire Bancroft. Hlus. in photogravure, etc., large 8vo, 

pp. 462. E. P. Dutton & Co. $5. net. 
Nadir Shah. By Sir Mortimer Durand. Hlus. and with maps, 

8vo, pp. 352. E. P. Dutton & Co. $3. net. 
A Bishop in the Rough. Edited by Rev. D. Wallace Duthie ; 

with preface by the Lord Bishop of Norwich. Hlus., 8vo, 

pp. 386. E. P. Dutton & Co. $2. net. 
The Apostle of Alaska : The Story of William Duncan of 

Metlakahtla. By John W. Arctander, LL.D. Hlus., 8vo, 

pp. 395. Fleming H. Revell Co. $1.50 net. 

HISTORY. 

The Wars of Religion in France, 1559-1576. By James West- 
fall Thompson, Ph.D. Hlus., large 8vo, pp. 635. University 
of Chicago Press. $4.50 net. 

Characters and Events of Roman History from Caesar to 
Nero. By Guglielmo Ferrero, Litt.D. ; trans, by Frances 
Lance Ferrero. 8vo, pp. 275. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $2.50 net. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



377 



The Political History of Engrland. Edited by William 
Hunt, D.Litt., and Reginald L. Poole. M.A. Vol. IX., The 
History of England from the Accession of Anne to the Death 
of George II., 1702-1760. By I. S. Leadam, M.A. With maps, 
8vo, pp. 557. Longmans, Green, & Co. 12.60 net. 

History of the State of Washinerton. By Edmond S. 
Meany, M.L. lUus. and with maps, 12mo, pp. 406. Mac- 
millan Co. $2.25 net. 

Robespierre and the French Bevolntion. By Charles F. 
Warwick. Illus., 8vo, pp. 407. George W. Jacobs & Co. 
$2.50 net. 

Notes and Documents Relating- to Westminster Abbey. 
Vol. I., The Manuscripts of Westminster Abbey, edited by 
J. Armitage Robinson, D.D., and Montague Rhodes James; 
Vol. II., Flete's History of Westminster Abbey, edited by 
J. Armitage Robinson, D.D. Each large 8vo. G. P. Putnam's 
Sons. $1.60 net. 

GENERAL LITERATURE. 

Plays, Acting, and Music : A Book of Theory. By Arthur 
Symons. New edition; 8vo, pp. 322. E. P. Button & Co. 
$2. net. 

The Wander Tears : Being Some Account of Journeys into 
Life, Letters, and Art. By J. H. Yoxall, M.P. 8vo, pp. 329. 
E. P. Button & Co. $2. net. 

The People at Play. By Rollin Lynde Hartt. Illus., 12mo, 
pp. 317. Houghton Mifflin Co. $1.50 net. 

The Statesmanship of Andrew Jackson as Told in His 
Writings and Speeches. Edited by Francis Newton Thorpe, 
Ph.B. Large 8vo, pp. 538. " Principles of American States- 
manship." New York : Tandy-Thomas Co. $2.50. 

Studies in Several Literatures. By Harry Thurston Peck, 
Litt.B. 12mo, pp. 296. Dodd, Mead & Co. $1.20 net. 

Charles W. Eliot, President of Harvard University (May 19, 
1869-May 19, 1909). By Br. Eugen Kuehnemann. With por- 
trait in photogravure, 12mo, pp.85. Houghton Mifflin Co. $1. 

Love Letters of Famous Poets and Novelists. Selected 
by Lionel Strackey and Prefaced with Descriptive Sketches 
by Walter Littlefleld. 8vo,pp. 340. New York : John McBride 
Co. $2. net. 

Tolstoy : The Man and His Message. By Edward A. Steiner. 
Enlarged edition ; illus. in color, etc., 12mo, pp. 353. Fleming 
H. Revell Co. $1.50 net. 

Mourning for Lincoln. By Frank W. Z. Barrett. 12mo, pp. 89. 
John C. Winston Co. $1. net. 

Product and Climax. By Simon Nelson Patten. 16mo, pp. 68. 
" The Art of Life Series." B. W. Huebsch. 50 cts. net. 

Self-Cultivation in English. By George Herbert Palmer, 
LL.D. 16mo, pp. 32. Thomas Y. Crowell «& Co. 10 cts. net. 

BOOKS OF VERSE. 
The Joy of Life, and Other Poems. By Theodosia Garrison, 

16mo, pp. 148. Mitchell Kennerley. $1. net. 
Bermuda Verses. By "Larry" Chittenden. Illus., 12mo. 

pp. 68. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $1.50 net. 
Fresh Fields and Legends Old and New. By Sarah J. 

Day. With frontispiece, 12mo, pp. 178. G. P. Putnam's Sons. 

$1.25 net. 

Saint Peter. By Richard Arnold Greene. 16mo, pp.48. Boston: 

Sherman, French & Co. $1. net. 
The Song of the Wahbeek. A Poem. By Henry Pelham 

Holmes Bromwell. With portrait, 12mo, pp. 195. Benver, 

Col.: Henrietta E. Bromwell. $1. 
In Itinere : Poems. By George Norton Northrop. 12mo, pp. 94. 

Oxford: B. H. Blackwell. 

NEW EDITIONS OF STANDARD LITERATURE. 
The Decameron: Preserved to Posterity by Giovanni Boccaccio, 

and translated into English anno 1620. With Introduction 

by Edward Hutton. In 4 vols., 8vo. London: Bavid Nutt. 
The Novels and Tales of Henry James, New York Edition. 

New vols. : The Altar of the Bead, The Beast in the Jungle, 

etc. ; Baisy Miller, Pandora, etc. ; The Wings of the Bove, in 

2 vols. Each with frontispiece in photogravure, 12mo. 

Charles Scribner's Sons. (Sold only in complete sets.) 
Joaquin Miller's Poems. Vol.1., An Introduction, etc. With 

frontispiece, 12mo, pp. 236. " Bear Edition." San Francisco : 

Whitaker & Ray Co. $1.25 net. 
The Tragical History of Doctor Faustus. By Christopher 

Marlowe. With portrait, 16mo, pp. 78. " Swan Bramatists." 

New York : Sturgis & Walton. 45 cts. net. 
De Q,uincey's Literary Criticism. Edited, with Introduction, 

by H. Barbishire. 16mo, pp. 267. London : Henry Frowde, 



FICTION. 

The White Sister. By Marion Crawford. With frontispiece 

in photogravure, 12mo, pp. 335. Macmillan Co. $1.50. 
The White Mice. By Richard Harding Bavis. Illus,, 12mo, 

pp. 309. Charles Scribner's Sons. $1.50. 
Set in Silver. By C. N. and A. M. Williamson. Illus. in color, 

etc., 12mo, pp. 445. Boubleday, Page & Co. $1.50. 
The Inner Shrine. Anonymous. Illus., 12mo, pp.356. Harper 

& Brothers. $1.50. 
The Romance of a Plain Man. By Ellen Glasgow. 12mo, 

pp.464. Macmillan Co. $1.50. 
Roads of Destiny. By O.Henry. 12mo.pp.376. Boubleday, 

Page & Co. $1.50. 
Elizabeth Visits America. By Eleanor Glyn. With frontis- 
piece, 12mo, pp. 350. Buffleld & Co. $1.50. 
The Governors. By E. Phillips Oppenheim. Illus. in color, 

etc., 12nio, pp. 300. Little, Brown & Co. $1.50. 
An Anarchist Woman. By Hutchins Hapgood. 12mo, 

pp. 309. Buffield & Co. $1.25 net. 
Red Horse Hill. By Sidney McCall. 12mo, pp. 361. Little, 

Brown & Co. $1.50. 
The Woman in Question. By John Reed Scott; illus. in 

color by C. P. Underwood. 12mo, pp. 346. J. B. Lippincott 

Co. $1.50. 
In the Wake of the Green Banner. By Eugene Paul 

Metour. Illus., 12mo, pp. 444. Charles Scribner's Sons. $1.50. 
The Plotting of Frances Ware. By James Locke. 12mo, 

pp. 309. Moffat, Yard & Co. $1.50. 
The Lady in the White Veil. By Rose O'Neil. Illus. in 

color, etc., 12mo, pp. 350. Harper •& Brothers. $1.50. 
The Winning Chance. By Elizabeth Bejeans. With frontis- 
piece in color, 12mo, pp. 317. J. B. Lippincott Co. $1.50. 
The Kingdom of Earth. By Anthony Partridge ; illus. by 

A. B. Wenzell. 12mo, pp. 329. Little, Brown & Co. $1.50. 
Love's Privilege. By Stella M. Biiring. Illustrated in color, 

12mo, pp. 375. J. B. Lippincott Co. $1.50. 
Mary Gray. By Katharine Tynan. Illus. in color, 12mo, 

pp. 336. Cassell & Co. $1.50. 
Philip the Forester : A Romance of the Valley of Gardens. 

By Baniel Edwards Kennedy, M.A. Limited edition ; large 

8vo, pp. 330. Brookline: The Queen's Shop. $4.50 net. 
The Sword of the Lord : A Romance of the Time of Martin 

Luther. By Joseph Hocking. 12mo, pp. 334. E. P. Button 

&Co. $1.25 net. 
The Hand of God. By Cora Bennett Stephenson. With 

frontispiece, 12mo, pp. 317. Boston : Ball Publishing Co. $1.50. 
The Hawk : A Story of Aerial War. By Ronald Legge. 12mo, 

pp. 310. John McBride Co. $1.50. 
By Right of Conquest. By Arthur Homblow. Illus. in color, 

etc., 12mo, pp. 353. G. W. Billingham Co. $1.50. 
Daughters of the Rich. By Edgar Saltus. With frontispiece 

in color, 12rao, pp. 259. Mitchell Kennerley. $1.26. 
The Battle. By Cleveland Moffett. Illus., 12mo, pp. 303. G.W. 

Billingham Co. $1.50. 

TRAVEL AND DESCRIPTION. 

Handbook of Alaska : Its Resources, Products, and Attrac- 
tions. By Major-General A. W. Greely, U. S. A. Illus. and 
with maps, 8vo, pp. 280. Charles Scribner's Sons. $2. net. 

Walks in Paris. By Georges Cain ; trans, by Alfred Allinson, 
M.A. Illus. in color, etc., 12mo, pp. 334. Macmillan Co. 
$2. net. 

POLITICS. - ECONOMICS. - SOCIOLOGY. 

Economic Heresies: Being an Unorthodox Attempt to Appre- 
ciate the Economic Problems Presented by " Things as They 
Are." By Sir Nathaniel Nathan. 8vo, pp. 423. Houghton 
Mifflin Co. $3. net. 

Railroad Freight Rates in Relation to the Industry and 
Commerce of the United States. By Logan G. McPherson, 
With maps, 8vo, pp. 441. Henry Holt & Co. $2.25 net. 

Chapters on Municipal Administration and Accounting. 
ByFrederick A.Cleveland, Ph.B. 12mo, pp.361. Longmans, 
Green, & Co. $2. net. 

Misery and Its Causes. By Edward T. Bevine, Ph.B. l2mo, 
pp. 274. Macmillan Co. $1.25 net. 

Industrial Efficiency: A Comparative Study of Industrial 
Life in England, Germany, and America. By Arthur Shad- 
well, M.A. New edition ; 12mo, pp. 720. Longmans, Green, 
& Co. $2. net. 

The Crisis : Trade Unions and the Courts. By Robert Hunter. 
16mo, pp. 32. Chicago : Samuel A. Bloch, Paper, 10 cts. net. 



378 



THE DIAL 



[June 1, 



The Open Shop. By Clarence Darrow. 16mo, pp. 32. Chicago : 
Samuel A. Bloch. Paper, 10 cts. net. 

KEIilGION AND THEOLOGY. 

Studies in Uystical Beligrion. By Rufus M. Jones, M.A. 
8vo, pp. 518. Macmillan Co. $3.50 net. 

A History of the Church of Engrland. By Rev. M. W. 
Patterson. 8vo. pp.457. $2. net. 

The Literary Man's Bible : A Selection of Passages from the 
Old Testament, Historic, Poetic, and Philosophic, Illustrat- 
ing Hebrew Literature. Arranged, with introductory essays 
and annotations, by W. L. Courtney, M.A. 12mo, pp. 413. 
Thomas Y. Crowell & Co. 11.25 net. 

The Gospel in Latin Lands : Outline Studies of Protestant 
Work in the Latin Countries of Europe and America. By 
Francis E. Clark, D.D., and Harriet A. Clark. With maps, 
12mo, pp. 312. Macmillan Co. 50 cts. net. 

Aids to Worship : An Essay Towards the Positive Preservation 
and Development of Catholicism. By Malcolm Quinn. 12mo, 
pp. 182. Newcastle-on-Tyne, England: T. M. Grierson. 

PHILOSOPHY AND PSYCHOLOGY. 

Is Immortality Desirable P By G. Lowes Dickinson. 16mo, 

pp. 63. Houghton Mifflin Co. 75 cts. net. 
Mendel's Principles of Heredity. By W. Bateson, M.A. 

Illus. in color, etc., large 8vo, pp. 393. Q. P. Putnam's Sons. 

$3.50 net. 
The Philosophy of Long: Life. By Jean Finot; trans, by 

Harry Roberts. 8vo, pp. 305. John Lane Co. 12.50 net. 
The Eternal Values. By Hugo Miinsterberg. 8vo, pp. 436. 

Houghton Mifflin Co. $2.50 net. 
Short Treatise on God, Man, and Human Welfare. By 

Benedictus de Spinoza ; trans, by Lydia Gillingham Robin- 
son. With frontispiece, 12mo, pp. 178. Chicago : Open Court 

Publishing Co. $1.25 net. 
The New Ethics. By J. Howard Moore. Revised edition ; 

12mo, pp. 216. Chicago : Samuel A. Bloch. $1. net. 
How I Know that the Dead Return. By William T. Stead. 

12mo, pp. 50. Boston : Ball Publishing Co. 75 cts. net. 

ART AND ARCH-ffiOLOGY. 
A Handbook of Modem French Painting. By D. Cady 

Eaton, M.A. Illus., 12mo, pp.361. Dodd, Mead & Co. $2. net. 
The City of Jerusalem. By C. R. Conder, LL.D. Illus., and 

with maps, 8vo, pp. 334. E. P. Dutton & Co. $4. net. 

NATURE. 
Our Insect Friends and Enemies : The Relation of Insects 

to Man, to Other Animals, to One Another, and to Plants. 

By John B. Smith, Sc.D. Illus. in color, etc., 12mo, pp. 314. 

J. B. Lippincott Co. $1.50 net. 
Practical Guide to the Wild Flowers and Fruits. By 

George Lincoln Walton, M.D. Illus. in color, etc., 12mo, 

pp. 228. J. B. Lippincott Co. $1.50 net. 

BOOKS OF REFERENCE. 

The New International Year Book : A Compendium of the 
World's Progress for the Year 1908. Edited by Frank Moore 
Colby, M.A. Illus. and with maps, large 8vo, pp. 776. 
Dodd, Mead & Co. $5. net. 

A Pocket Lexicon and Concordance to the Temple 
Shakespeare. Illus., 16mo, pp. 274. Macmillan Co. Cloth, 
45 cts. ; leather, 65 cts. 

EDUCATION. 

English Prose. 1137-1890. Selected by John Matthews Manly, 
Ph.D. 8vo, pp. 544. Ginn & Co. $1.70. 

The Folk Dance Book: For Elementary Schools, Class Room, 
Playground, and Gymnasium. Compiled by C. Ward Cramp- 
ton, M.D. Large 8vo, pp. 81. New York: A. S. Barnes & 
Co. $1.50 net. 

Plays and Games for Indoors and Out. Rhythmic Activities 
Correlated with the Studies of the School Program. By 
Belle Ragnar Parsons. Illus. , 8vo, pp. 215. New York : A. S. 
Barnes & Co. $1.50 net. 

One Year Course in English and American Literature: 
An Introduction to the Chief Authors in English and 
American Literature, with Reading Lists and References for 
Further Study. By Benjamin A. Heydrick, A.M. Illus., 
12mo, pp. 289. New York: Hinds, Noble &Eldredge. $1. 

Fogazzaro's Pereat Roohus and Un Idea Di Ermes 
Torranza. Edited by Alfonso De Salvio, Ph.D. 16mo, 
pp. 102. D. C. Heath & Co. 40 cts. net. 



Till EulensplegeL Edited by Frederick Betz, A.M. Illus.. 

16mo, pp. 61. D. C. Heath & Co. 30 cts. net. 
Les M6saventures de Jean-Paul Choppart. Far Louis 

Desnoyers. Edited by C. Fontaine. 16mo, pp. 185. D. C. 

Heath & Co. 40 cts. net. 
Dick Whittington, and Other Stories. Selected and arranged 

by Frank W. Howard. Illus., 16mo, pp. 167. Charles E. 

Merrill Co. 30 cts. net. 
Practical Arithmetic. By L. D. Harvey. Books I. and II. 

12mo. American Book Co. 
Banbury Cross Stories. Selected and arranged by Frank 

W. Howard. Illus., 16mo, pp. 123. Charles E. Merrill Co. 

25 cts. net. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 
Remaking the Mississippi. By John Lathrop Mathews. 

Illus., 12mo, pp. 264. Houghton Mifflin Co. $1.75 net. 
Practical Golf. By Walter J. Travis. Revised edition ; illus., 

l2mo, pp. 267. Harper & Brothers. $2. net. 
Manual of Physical Exercises: "A Health Hand-Book." 

By A. R. T. Winjum, M.E. Illus., 12mo, pp. 361. Battle 

Creek, Mich. : A. R. T. Winjum. $1.75. 
Cooking for Two : A Handbook for Young Housekeepers. 

By Janet Mackenzie Hill. Illus., 12mo, pp. 407. Little, 

Brown & Co. $1.50 net. 
Camping and Camp Cooking. By Frank A. Bates. 16mo, 

pp. 116. Boston : Ball Publishing Co. 75 cts. net. 
Writing the Short-Story. By J. Berg Esenwein, A.M. 12mo, 

pp. 441. New York: Hinds, Noble & Eldredge. $1.25. 
Kipling Stories and Poems Every Child Should Know. 

Edited by Mary E. Burt and W. T. Chapin, Ph.D. Illus.. 

12mo, pp. 361. Doubleday, Page and Co. $1.20 net. 
Old Meeting-Houses. By John Russell Hayes. Illus., 12mo. 

Philadelphia: Biddle Press. 75 cts. 
Choosing a Vocation. By Frank Parsons, Ph.D. 12mo, 

pp. 165. Houghton Mifflin Co. $1. net. 
Inferences at Bridge. By W. Dalton. 16mo, pp. 86. J. B. 

Lippincott Co. 40 cts. net. 
We Have With Us To-night : What Happens at That Great 

American Institution, the Banquet. By Samuel G. Blythe. 

Illus., 18mo, pp.92. Philadelphia: HenryAltemusCo. 50cts. 
Not the Salary but the Opportunity. By Orison Swett 

Harden. 16mo, pp. 30. Thomas Y. Crowell & Co. 10 cts. net. 



MANUSCRIPTS 
TYPEWRITTEN 



EXPERT SERVICE 

MODERATE FEES 
L. E. Swartz, 526 Newport, Chicago 



TVDCUUDITIklP ■ Dramatic, Literary. 4 cents per hundred words. 
ITrCnnMinU. References. M. S. Gn-PATBic, 156 Fifth Ave., N. Y. 

WniT'rpC WHAT HAVE YOU IN SHORT STORIES, 
W I\l I JuIViJ Novelettes, Serials, Poetry, Special and Illus- 
trated Articles? Address THE SIMMONS MAGAZINE, 150 
NASSAU STREET. NEW YORK CITY (Mention Dial.) 

Rare and Out-of-Print Book Catalogue 

JUST ISSUED, MAILED FKEE ON BEQUEST. 
WRITE us FOB ANY UNUSUAL OB OUT-OP-PBINT BOOKS. 

THE LEXINGTON BOOK SHOP, 120 EAST 69th STREET, NEW YORK 

"THE DOUBLE FORTUNE" 

By BERTHA LADD HOSKINS 
A splendid and dramatic tale of travel and adventure, of 
absorbing mystery and strange experiences, of love and 
tragedy ; realistic and entertaining, breathing the spirit of the 
great emotion that is the essence of all books written for a 
permanent place on our shelves. The story vibrates with intense 
human interest and the descriptions are vivid and picturesque. 
Not a dull page from start to finish. Send for it at once. 

THE NEALE PUBLISHING CO., WasMngton, D. C. 



BOOKBINDING 

PLAIN AND ARTISTIC, IN ALL VARIETIES OF 
LEATHER 

HENRY BLACKWELL 

University Place and 10th Street, New York City 



1909.] 



THE DIAL. 



379 



invi I C nc rurvrv howard v. Sutherland 
lUILLd Ur UtvLLLL $1.00. ByMaii$i.o9. 

SHERMAN, FRENCH 4. CO., BOSTON. MASS. 



F. M. HOLLY 

Authors' and Publishers' Representative 

Circulars sent upon request. 156 Fifth Avenue. New York. 

Authors Seeking a Publisher 

Should communicate with 
the Cochrane Publishing Co. 
450 Tribune Building, New 
York City 

DA Dp ROOFCS ^ Catalogues Issued Regularly. 
•'^•'^"•*-' UV-f vyrvij . Next one relates to Lincoln, 
Civil War, and Slavery. Sent Free. 

W. F. STOWE. 167 CUNTON AVE., KINGSTON, N. Y. 



OUR LIBRARY SERVICE 

WE have recently supplemented our service to Libraries, by 
procuring Out-of-Print and Scarce Books, and by importing 
English books. 

Our EDUCATIONAL CATALOGUE contams a full list 
of Supplementary Beading, indicating the grade to which each 
title is adapted. 

Our CLEARANCE CATALOGUE contams overstock at 
special prices, and an alphabetical arrangement by authors of all 
cheap editions of Recent Popular Fiction and Standard Library 
12mos in one list. 

Our LIBRARY CATALOGUE of 3500 approved titles, fol- 
lowing A. L. A. lines, is of great convenience to small libraries. 

Our MONTHLY BULLETIN notices promptly every new 
book of importance. 

These Catalogues are sent on request. Three notable features of 
our service are : promptness, thoroughness, and low prices. 

THE BAKER & TAYLOR CO. 

wholesale dealers in the books op all publishers 
33 East Seventeenth Street, New York 



ROOICS ^^^ OUT- OP- PRINT BOOKS SUPPLIED, 

■-'^-'^-'**'^» no matter on what subject. Write us. We can get 
you any book ever published. Please state wants. Catalogue free. 
BAKER'S GREAT BOOK SHOP, 14-16 Bright St., BiBMiNaHAH, Enq. 



FOR ANY BOOK ON EARTH writ* to H. H. TIMBY, 

Book Hunter. Catalogues free, lit Nat. Bank Bldg., Oonneaut, O. 



A New Volume in The Art of Life Series. 
Edward Howard Griggs, Editor. 

SELF-MEASUREMENT 

A Scale of Human Values with Directions for Personal Application 
By WILLIAM DE WITT HYDE, President of Bo wdoin CoUege. 

At all bookstores. 50ctsnet; postpaid, 55 cts. 
B. W. HUEBSCH PUBLISHER NEW YORY CITY 



YOU CAN NOW BY USE OF THE 



P 



ERFECT 
AMPHLET 
RESERVER 



BIND 
THE DIAL 



at trifling cost. Holds one number or a 
volume, — looks like a book on the shelf. 
Simple in operation. Sent postpaid for 

25 CENTS 

THE DIAL COMPANY, CHICAGO 



The Home 
Poetry Book 

We have all been 
wanting so 

lonO* .^^^^ Edited by 

^^ & '^^^^^ FRANCIS F. BROWNE 

Editor "Poems of the Civil War," 
Laurel Crowned Verse," etc. Author 
"Everyday Life of Lincoln," etc., etc. 

"GOLDEN POEMS" contains more at everyone' a 
favorites than any other collection at a popu- 
lar price, and has besides the very best of the 
many fine poems that have been written in 
the last few years. 

Other collections may contain more poems of one 
kind or more by one author. 

"GOLDEN POEMS" (by British and American 
Authors) has 550 selections from 300 writers, 
covering the whole range of English literature. 



^ •• 



"Golden Poems 



"GOLDEN POEMS " is a fireside volume for the 
thousands of families who love poetry. It is 
meant for those who cannot afford all the col- 
lected works of their favorite poets — it offers 
the poems they like best, all in one volunte. 

The selections in " GOLDEN POEMS " are classi- 
fied according to their subjects : By the Fire- 
side; Nature's Voices; Dreams and Fancies; 
Friendship and Sympathy; Love; Liberty and 
Patriotism ; Battle Echoes; Humor; Pathos and 
Sorrow; The Better Life; Scattered Leaves. 

" GOLDEN POEMS," with its wide appeal, at- 
tractively printed and beautifully bound, 
makes an especially appropriate Christmas 
gift. 

In two styles binding, ornamental cloth and flex- 
ible leather. Of booksellers, or the publishers, 
A. C. McCLURG & CO., CHICAGO. 
Price, $i.SO' 




380 



THE DIAL. 



[June 1, 1909. 



^ Latest Volumes in AMERICAN NATURE SERIES. Prospectus and Details on Request. 






BIRDS OF THE WORLD 

By Frank H. Knowlton, of the U.S. National 
Museum, with chapter on the Anatomy of Birds by 
F. A. Lucas, Brooklyn Academy of Arts and Sciences, 
and edited by Robert Ridgway, U.S. National Museum. 
With i6 colored plates and several hundred text cuts, 
fy.oo net. 

A modern, popular account. The most comprehensive one- 
volume work on the subject. The treatment of the game birds 
has been made very full. 

"Admirable. ... No better single source from winch to 
begin one's study." — Independent. 

Anyone can find out what he wants about any bird he is 
interested in put in language he can easily understand. The 
colored plates are remarkably good, and the other pictures really 
illustrate. 

" The previous volumes of this series have been remarkably 
practical and helpful. Dr. Knowlton's " Birds " comes up to 
their standard in every respect." — Netv York Sun. 

NORTH AMERICAN TREES 

By Nathaniel Lord Britton, Director-in-Chief of 
the N. Y. Botanical Garden, assisted by J. A. Shafer, of 
theN. Y. Botanical Garden. 775 illustrations, 894 pp., 
full gilt, boxed, $7.00 net. 

The most comprehensive and profusely illustrated single 
volume on the trees known to grow mdependently of cultivation 
in North America north of the West Indies and Mexico. 

" This splendid book." — The Dial, 

" The most complete description of the trees of North America 
that we have seen." — New York Sun, 



FISH STORIES: Alleged and Experienced, 
with a Little History, Natural and 
Unnatural 

By Charles F. Holder, author of " The Log of a 
Sea Angler," etc., and David Starr Jordan, author 
of " A Guide to the Study of Fishes," etc. With four 
colored plates and many other illustrations. $1.75 net. 

" In sober truth, if it be possible to be sober after reading an 
intoxicating mixture of drollery and science, the two authors 
are admirably associated, and, one chapter excepted, there is no 
reason, not strictly bromidian, for not accepting every word 
which they say. They explain many sea serpent tales ; they 
describe rare fish ; they duly honor the memory of Izaak Walton, 
they solve many a scientific riddle, and they illustrate their book 
with excellent photographs and a few colored plates. One need 
not know a hook from a reel to enjoy reading these 'Fish 
Stories.' " — Living Age. 

"A delightful miscellany; very readable." — Netu York Sun. 

THE LIFE OF A FOSSIL HUNTER 

By Charles H. Sternberg, with introduction by 
Professor H. F. Osborn. 48 illustrations, $1.60 net. 

The most interesting autobiography of the oldest and best 
known explorer in this field. 

" Hardy adventure and hair-breadth escape. . . , Makes the 
dead past of five million years ago live again." — The Dial. 

THE FRESH-WATER AQUARIUM AND 
ITS INHABITANTS 

By Otto Eggeling and Frederick Ehrenberg. 
100 illustrations, $2.00 net. 

" The best guide to the aquarium." — The Independent. 



FISHES. By David Starr Jordan 
$6.00 net. 

AMERICAN INSECTS. By Vernon L. Kellogg. Svo. 
Illustrated. $5.00 net. 

FERNS. By C. E. Waters. Svo. Illustrated. $3.00 net. 



Earlier Volumes of the Series 
8vo. Illustrated 



By V. L. Kellogg. izmo. lUus- 



INSECT STORIES. 

trated. $1.50 net. 
THE BIRD : Its Form and Function. By C. W. Beebe. 

8vo. Illustrated. $3.50 net. 
NATURE AND HEALTH. By Edward Curtis, M.D. 
i2mo. $1.25 net. 



VACATION FICTION 
WILLIAM DE MORGAN'S IT NEVER CAN HAPPEN AGAIN Ready in June. 

By the author of " Somehow Good," " AHce-for-Short," and " Joseph Vance." $1.75. 

Edward Verrall Lucas said in The Outlook De Morgan is " almost the perfect example of the humorist; 
certainly the completest since Lamb." 

WALTER P. EATON'S and ELISE M. UNDERHILL'S THE RUNAWAY PLACE 

A very human idyl of Central Park (New York). Mr. Eaton made his reputation as a dramatic critic of the 

Neiv York Sun. $1.25. 

LOTTIE BLAIR PARKER'S HOMESPUN 

A New England village story, by the author of the popular plays " Way Down East " and " Under Southern 
Skies," with much realism and humor. $1.50. 



THE BUILDERS OF SPAIN. By Clara Craw- 
ford Perkins, author of " French Cathedrals and 
Chateaux." 2 vols. Svo. 64 illustrations. $5.00 net. 

THE POETIC OLD WORLD, Compiled by Lucy 
H. Humphrey. Uniform with Lucas's "The Open 
Road," etc. Leather, $2.50 net ; cloth, $1.50 net. 



CHAPTERS OF OPERA. 

^ith 72 illustrations. Svo. 



By H. E. Krehbiel 

$3.50 net. 




THE BLUE AND THE QRAY and Other 
Poems. By F. M. Finch. I1.30 net. 



Recently Published 

WHEN RAILROADS WERE NEW. By C. F. 

Carter. Illustrated. $2.00 net. 
RAILROAD FREIGHT RATES. In Relation to 
the Industry and Commerce of the United States. 
By L. G. McPherson. Svo. $2.25 net. 

FIFTY YEARS OF DARWINISM. Eleven Ad- 
dresses in Honor of Charles Darwin, delivered before 
the American Association for the Advancement of 
Science. $2.00 net. 

OVER AGAINST OREEN PEAK. By Zephine 
Humphrey. $1.25 net. 



Henry Holt and Company 



34 West 33d St. 
NEW YORK 



Entered aa Second-Class Matter October 8, 1892, at the Post Office at Chicago, Illinois, under Act of March 3, 1879. 



r 



V 



THE DIAL 

^ SEMI-MONTHLY JOURNAL OF 



FRANcT8?.VRowNj'^''5-r.J^'^^- CHICAGO, JUNE 16,1909. 



10 cts. a copi/. /Fine Arts Buildinq 
$Z. a year. \ 203 MichUran Blvd. 



Mr. Price Collier's book on English life and character is more thoughtful and better expressed 
than anything on similar lines by an American that we have read for a long time.'' — London Spectator. 

ENGLAND AND THE ENGLISH 



FROM AN AMERICAN POINT OF VIEW 



$1.50 NET 
POSTPAID $1.60 



NOW IN ITS 
SECOND PRINTING 



By Price Collier 

" Nobody who knows England, or cares for the Engh'sh, can lay this book down after he 
has begun it. It is devoid of the commonplaces of the average observer. It is free from the 
broad and vague generalizations of the average international student. It is direct, concrete, 
and pungent — a book sound in both observation and comment." — The Outlook. 

" Innumerable books have been written by Americans about England and by Englishmen 
about America, but few of them are at once so shrewd, so accurate, and so enlivening 
as this." — London Observer. 

Hand Book of Alaska: Its Resources, Products, 

and Attractions 

By Major-General A. W. Greely, U. S. A. ¥iyS%\^oiiS?.%S?T?a%^.?5° 

Such a book has been long needed that would give a comprehensive, condensed, and 
graphic description of the enormous resources, wonderful scenery, and infinite possibilities of 
this region." — National Geographic Magazine. 



By 



Siena: The Story of a Mediaeval Commune 



ILLUSTRATND. $2.50 NET 
POSTPAID $2.75 



Ferdinand Schevill 

The subject is an epic one and Dr. Schevill has accepted his opportunity to do an 
enthusiastic piece of work, and has neglected nothing, however slight or curious, that will add 
to the picture." — Chicago Tribune. 

SUMMER FICTION 



In the Wake of the 
Green Banner 

By Eugene Paul Metour 

' ' Utterly different from the ordi- 
nary run of Fiction. Some of the 
situations are tremendous in their 
dramatic appeal to the imagina- 
tion. The book is one the reader 
will not soon forget." 

— Chicago Record-Herald. 
Illustrated. $1.50. 



Another Edition Now Ready 
The Chippendales 

By Robert Grant 

"An uncommonly good story 
of American life. Entertaining 
from cover to cover." 

— Neiu York Tribune. 

" We have fairly reveled in this 

story ; it is unusual in scope and 

purpose. " — Philadelphia Record. 

$1.50. 



The White Mice 

By Richard Harding Davis 
Now in its Third Printing 

" Those who love ' The Three 
Musketeers,' those who devour the ro- 
mances of Anthony Hope and Marion 
Crawford, those who want always 
something doing and who want it told 
in sharp, crisp, vivid, tense style at 
rattling good speed, must get ' The 
White Mice ' for the week-end trip." 
— Boston Transcript. 
Illustrated. $1.50. 



CHARLES SCRIBNER SONS 



PUBLISHERS 



NEW YORK 



882 



THE DIA.L 



[June 16, 



JUST rilU.lSllEn-AN IMPORTANT BOOK 

Are the Dead Alive? 

By FREMONT RIDER. Cloth, Extra, Octavo. lUus. Fixed Price, $1.75. 

A careful and authoritative summing up of a half-century's progress in psychical 
research, written in a way that almost compels an absorbing interest. 

Ghosts, spirit rappings, materializations, table levitations, trance speaking and writing, 
telcjxithv, clairvoyance — form no immediately attractive field for scientific investigation, 
rhe author's purpose has been absolute impartiality, considering childish credulity and the 
denial of ignorance alike to be condemned. 

When a portion of the book condensed ran serially in " The Delineator '* the comment 
aroused was almost unprecedented, literally thousands of letters being received. 

The writer was fortunate enough to secure the cooperation of such scholars and writers 
as Sir Oliver Lodge, William T. Stead, Count Tolstoi, Sir William Crookes, Professor 
Richet, Dr. Lombroso, Andrew Lang, Camille Flammarion, Professor William James, etc., 
who prepared especially for it statements of their personal belief on the question of the 
book's title. 

The book is illustrated with some 50 photographs, most of them never before published, 
illustrating every phase of psychical phenomena, including remarkable photographs of levitation 
and examples of alleged materialization, and is provided with a very complete index. 

B. W. Dodge & Company, Publishers, 43 West 27th Street, New York 



** Remarkable for its dramatic beauty." 

The World's Triumph 

By Louis James Block 

A five-act drama, in blank verse, of the 
fourteenth century, with a prologue and 
epilogue set in a modern English home. 

CRITICAL OPINIONS 

"Adds another to the little group of 

recent American poetical dramas excellent 

in themselves and of happy augury for the 

future." — Living Agt (Boston). 

"With much ideality in it and poetic 

feeling in atmosphere and line." 

— Caurier-Jottrnal (Louisville). 

" The rhythm is especially admirable, 

and the expression throughout is graceful 

and forcible." 

— Evening News (Newark, N. J.) 

12ino. Decorated cloth. $1.25 net; 
postpakl $1.32. 

J. B. LlPPlNCOn CO., PHILADELPHIA 



Library Book Orders 

We have conducted a special depart- 
ment for many years that has been 
exceptionally successful in handling 
book orders from 

Public Libraries, 
Schools, Colleges, 
and Universities 

We have on our shelves the most 
complete and most comprehensive 
assortment of books to be found in 
any bookstore in the entire country. 
This enables us to make full ship- 
ments of our orders with the 
utmost despatch. 

A. C. McCLURG & CO. 

UBRARY DEPARTMENT CHICAGO 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



SI 



SECOND EDITION 



AN ACHIEVEMENT !'' 



FAME'S PATHWAY 

A Romance of a Genius 
By H. C. CHATFI ELD-TAYLOR 

IllttStrationft by JOB 

M(di^re is the hero; the heroine, a fascinating actress. 

HAMLIN GARLAND writes: 

" I salute the author of * Fame's Pathway/ The hool^ interested me 
deeply. I read every word of it. It is all mighty convincing. The charac- 
terizations of Moliere, Madeleine, and Trinette are fine, fine ! I wanted 
the story to go on. I wanted to know more of the realitui of the dram- 
atist's career. To have brought him so close to us was an achievement. 
This is a remarkable piece of work.*' 



WiLUAM A. NiTZE, Unnrenttf of C j lii or m a, 
Romansc Languages, %xf% : " I liare joac fin- 
iriied four oew Toliune on MoSere winch 
joa «o Icindijr soit me. Allow me to con- 
gratulate fou on It. It was not an CMf task 
to write socfa a romance ; but foa hare soc- 
ceeded, tt seems to me, not oaif in creating 
the illusion so essential to fictioo bat in stick- 
ing to what we know of the tmtli. For those 
who do not realize wliat an actor-fJ a/ w i i gfat's 
life in those dajrs was, jrour grapluc Sfnthesis 
will be a great aid in making their estimate of 
Moliere the man. And for those who do, k 
win fix the picture more Tiridlf in memory." 

From Mrs. RmcaukLD DC KavEM: "You 
know foor atmosphere wuptAMth dj welL I 
find that the feding of syuiiMthy for Mohete 
htmsdf in his ranons difjcnfcirs is rrgj keen, 
and makes for life and Ae §tdaog of life. 
There are rmom piUMgci, noutkf the 
description of the idand on the lore daf of 
your kwen, which are very poetic iadeed." 



Froitaaor T. F, Ckajte. Cocacl Vmnenkj, 
soys: "It secflM to me that, yam hame aaed 
yoor ffffff*"** in a rexf ou t beA f waf. I hate 
akeadf called the atteotioa of nqr dbas in the 
SeveMccath Ccluiy to the novel, aad si^- 
gestedthat thef woold find it an iatcsesting 
stndf to trace the hirtorical sonfces of the 
materiaL 

" It seems to me that jov hare iieen most 
accwate, and €he book vcftiinlj gives a verf 
▼ividand true picture of the 



From an Amencan leader of tjoumotk suiirtjf t 
** I don't know when I have enj of ed leafing 
auythinc so m n ch as yoor book. Itissofnl 
of dbecoloor and file of those days that yon 
fed sioMist to be living then. It is al so 
hoonn, so real, and so pathetic it holds jwa 
to the vety end. Icxmldn't leave it till had 
finiihrd it, and sot iq» neari^ the wh<^ night 
fromChscaeo. Yon have 0Dnefv on 'Fame's 
Pathwa^r' in wridnc «ch a book and I 
congcatoiate yon 'with all my heart.' " 



S1.50 postpaid. At all booksellers or from the publirtwrf 

DUFFIE1D^C0MB\NY 



36WEST37?5I 




NEW YORK 



384 



THE DIAL, 



[June 16, 1909. 



READY NEXT WEEK 
A new novel hy the authw of*-''A Kentucky Cardinal''' 

James Lane Allen's The Bride of the Mistletoe 

After the six years which have passed since Mr. Allen's pst novel was published this 
announcement will give great delight to those who appreciate the rare beauty of 
atmosphere in his books and their power of a spiritual suggestion almost as perfectly 
finished as Hawthorne's. To he ready June 23. Price probably $1.25. 



Selections from American Literature, 

1607-1800 By WILLIAM B. CAIRNS 

Assistant Professor of American Literature in the 
University of Wisconsin. Cloth. $l.i5 net. 

Qenetic Psycliology 

By EDWIN A. KIRKPATRICK 

Director of the Child Study Department of the Fitch- 
burg ( Mass. ) State Normal School, author of ' ' Funda- 
mentals of Child Study," etc. Cloth. $1.S5 net. 

The American High School 

By JOHN FRANKLIN BROWN, Ph.D. 

formerly Professor of Education and Inspector of 
High Schools for the State University of Iowa. A 
direct, sane, and practical account of the function and 
the present status of the high school. An essential 
book to every high school teacher. Cloth. $1.1,0 net. 

The Elements of Hygiene for Schools 

By ISABEL McISAAC 

Author of the " Hygriene for Nurses," used in many 
training schools, also of "Primary Nursing Tech- 
nique." Cloth, illustrated, 172 pages. 60 cents net. 

The Faith and Works of 
Christian Science 

A pungent exposition of that curiously contradictory 
teaching ; but the wit of it is never bitter, and the 
kindly personality behind it is always that of the 
writer of the well-known Confessio Medici. 

Cloth. $1.25 net. 

Misery and Its Causes 

By EDWARD T. DEVINE 

Editor of The Survey, General Secretary of the 
Charity Organization Society of New York City. 

Cloth, 12mo, xii. +27 i pages. $1.25 net; by mail, $1.36. 

Socialism new edition 
By JOHN SPARQO 

A summary and interpretation of principles, with an 
added chapter giving the author's personal views on 
means of realization. Cloth, 31,9 poges. $1.50 net; 

by mail, $1.62. 

Socialism in Theory and Practice 
By MORRIS HILLQUIT 

Probably the most serviceable book yet written for the 

thinking reader who wishes to know what may be said 

on both sides of a question which cannot be ignored. 

Cloth, 361 pages. $1.50 net ; by mail, $1.60. 



Mr. F. Marion Crawford's new novel 
The White Sister 

" As strong, as absorbing, and as satisfying a novel as 
any Mr. Crawford ever wrote." Cloth. $1.50. 

Miss Ellen Glasgow's new novel 
The Romance of a Plain Man 

A charming love story, and an intimate view of the 
social life of the new South. TJie Chicago Tribune 
describes it as " subtle and convincing," adding, "its 
atmosphere is fascinating indeed." Cloth. $1.50. 

IN PREPARATION 

Mabel Osgood Wright's 
Poppea of the Post Office 

By the author of " The Garden of a Commuter's Wife," 
" The Open Window," etc. To be ready late in June. 



William Allen White's 
A Certain Rich Man 



notable novel 



The author's notable short stories in the ^wej-tcaw 
Magazine, of which he is an editor, have aroused wide 
interest in this his first novel. To be ready in June. 



Professor William B. Munro's new hook 
Government of European Cities 

" A valuable, full, well-digested work . . . which can- 
not but be Msetxii." — Baltimore Sun. 

Cloth. $2.50 net ; by mail, $2.69. 

Mr. Percy MacKaye's new book 
The Playhouse and the Play 

A plea for an endowed civic theatre on the ground that 
whether we have recognized it or not the theatre is a 
tremendous influence in social education, of which 
much might and should be made. 

Cloth. $1.25 net; by mail, $1.35. 

Kate V. St. Maur's new book 
The Earth's Bounty 

Is written in the same thoroughly interesting, prac- 
tical style as "A Self-Supporting Home," but deals 
with a wider range of the activities of a small farm. 
Illustrated, cloth. $1.76 net ; by mail, $1.90. 



Mrs. Schuyler Van Rensselaer's History of the City of New York in the 
Seventeenth Century 

The most thorough and exhaustive study yet made of this phase of the life of the city. It is written with a clarity 
and strength which makes interesting reading. Two volumes. Cloth, Svo. $5.00 net. 

The Life and Times of Laurence Sterne By Wilbur L. Cross 

The author is Professor of English Literature at Yale University, Editor of the collected edition of the famous 
humorist's works. Author of " The Development of the English Novel." His new book is a racy picture of the 
society of London and Paris in Sterne's day. Cloth, Svo. $2.50 net ; by mail, $2.70. 



Published 
by 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 



64-66 Fifth Ave. 
New York 



THE DIAL 

31 Semt»iW0ntfjl2 Soumal at S^itniarg Crtticigm, W&tn&mn, antj Inf0rtnatf0n. 



No. 552. JUNE 16, 1909. Yol. XLVI. 

Contents. 

PAGE 

AN APOSTLE OF GOOD CITIZENSHIP . . . .385 

EDWARD EVERETT HALE 387 

ROUSSEAU IN 1909. Warren Barton Blake . . .388 

CASUAL COMMENT 391 

An author of inscriptions. — Two opinions of 
Shelley. — The death of R. Nisbet Bain. — The 
foreigner's opinion of English spelling. — The hand- 
writing of culture. — A case of inverted plagiar- 
ism. — Mrs. Julia Ward Howe at ninety. — The 
cipher microbe. — A stage censorship by reputable 
actors. — Abdul-Hamid the book-collector. 
COMMUNICATIONS: 

Theodore Roosevelt and Thomas Paine. James F. 

Morton, Jr.; Frederic M. Wood 393 

The Importation of Copyrighted Books. Geo. 

Haven Putnam 394 

Some Needed Typographical Reforms. George 
French 395 

CONCORD MEMORIES, AND OTHER PAGES 

FROM THE PAST. Percy F. Bicknell . . 396 

CHAPTERS OF AMERICAN OPERA. George P. 

Upton 398 

SHELLEY THE "ENCHANTED CHILD." Anna 

Benneson McMahan 399 

A MASTERPIECE OF TYPOGRAPHY. Frederick 

W. Gookin 401 

THE INDIVIDUALITY OF WALT WHITMAN. 

W. E. Simonds 404 

BRIEFS ON NEW BOOKS 405 

From fur-trade to Exposition. — Points for workers 
in the library. — Beginnings and romance of Amer- 
ican railroads. — France from Waterloo to the 
Third Republic. — A famous foe of the Scotch cov- 
enanters. — The value of superstition. — A pioneer 
and missionary in the far Northwest. — The evo- 
lution of our modern orchestration. — The fairest 
city of the 2Egean Sea. 

BRIEFER MENTION 408 

NOTES 408 

LIST OF NEW BOOKS 409 



AN APOSTLE OF GOO D CITIZENSHIP. 

Early in 1860, when the political campaign of 
that memorable year was opening, one Timothy 
Smith, aged seventy-seven, took up a farm in 
central Illinois. He was a typical pioneer, bom 
in Connecticut, who had followed the westward 
movement of the frontier through New York 
and Pennsylvania to the prairies of the Sanga- 
mon. A New Englander of the old Puritan 
stock, he changed his skies but not his soul as 
he migrated from farm to farm, and the austere 
ideals of a God-fearing and hard-working ances- 
try shaped his life in its successive habitations. 



The harshness of the inherited orthodox theology 
grew repellent to him as he came to see life 
clearly for what it was, but the ethical kernel of 
puritanism was treasured in his thought and 
conduct after the wrappings had been cast aside. 
His political memories went back to the struggle 
for the Constitution ; he was successively a Fed- 
eralist, a Whig, an Abolitionist, and a Repub- 
lican ; he survived until the struggle for the 
Union was over, and he died on that startled 
April morning when the news of Lincoln's 
death changed jubilation into mourning, and 
plunged the nation into the blackest grief it had 
ever known. An American of the kind whose 
character was typified for the ages in the per- 
sonality of the great President, Timothy Smith 
lived and died obscurely, unknown to fame, one 
of the plain people. There have been many 
thousands of such Americans as he, and they 
have been the salt of the New World. 

Someone has said — was it Dr. Holmes? — 
that to educate a man properly, you must begin 
with his grandfather. This thought has recurred 
to us while reading the memorial volume into 
which have been collected the more significant 
writings of Edwin Burritt Smith, now published 
three years after his death. For Timothy Smith 
was the grandfather of the man whose memory 
is now honored, and an account of the pioneer's 
life, written with tender piety, is one of the most 
notable features of the book. As we follow the 
story of the ancestor's laborious years, charac- 
terized by simplicity and stern integrity, we 
realize something of the inheritance which he 
was preparing for his descendants, an inherit- 
ance not of perishable wealth, but of moral fibre 
and of the qualities that may make the hard 
" passage through our slough " a true pilgrim's 
progress toward the celestial city. 

Those who were privileged to know Edwin 
Burritt Smith, and to work hand in hand with 
him in the causes to which his best energies were 
devoted, have not yet — probably never will — 
become reconciled to his taking-off three years 
ago. He was in the prime of life, his influence 
was just beginning to make itself highly effec- 
tive, he had attracted to himself the attention of 
earnest workers for righteousness in all parts of 
the country, his grasp and his power were fully 
developed, and he should have been good for 
twenty more years of the highest civic useful- 



386 



THE DIAL 



[June 16, 



ness. He was a man who would have gone far 
had that score of additional years been vouch- 
safed him, but at hardly more than the midway 
station of man's active life he was confronted by 
man's ancient enemy, and, after a brave struggle, 
was defeated. The vitalizing energy that im- 
parted itself to his feUow-workers was all that 
remained ; now we have given us in addition 
this printed record, drawing for us in broken or 
fragmentary form a few of the main lines of 
his endeavor. 

The contents of this volume are about equally 
divided between local and national questions. 
Nine of the " Essays and Addresses " are given 
to matters of municipal government, some nar- 
rowed to the special case of Chicago, others of 
more comprehensive scope. The author was one 
of the leading spirits in that Municipal Voters' 
League which substituted an essentially honest 
city council in Chicago (with only a sprinkling 
of "gray wolves ") for the old corrupt gang that 
had disgraced the community for many years. 
He was also active in securing for the city a 
suitable civil service law and an equitable settle- 
ment of the vexing problem of the street rail- 
ways. He knew that city governments are the 
chief plague-spots upon the American body 
politic, that " no cure can be complete or ade- 
quate that does not reach the seat of the dis- 
ease," and that " the recovery of representative 
government must begin in the cities." Hence 
his most fruitful labors were exerted in this 
direction, and they were made fruitful by the 
combination of his legal training with the most 
practical kind of common sense. He was ever 
an idealist, but his feet were always firmly 
planted on the solid earth. 

The group of nine papers upon questions of 
national politics are devoted in part to such 
abstract subjects as the nature of sovereignty, 
the Monroe Doctrine and the general question 
of our international dealings, and the deeper 
implications of democracy. In part they voice 
the sentiment that aroused so many of the finer 
spirits of the nation to indignation when we en- 
gaged some ten years ago in a needless war and 
entered upon an " aggressive " foreign policy. 
No one saw more clearly than Mr. Smith that 
we were following after false gods and aban- 
doning the most sacred principles of our national 
life when we adopted this course, and no one 
expressed more incisively the better and more 
sober judgment of the American people in its 
great latter-day crisis. He made himself one of 
the chief spokesmen of anti-imperialism, and 
under his leadership the opposition to our fire- 



and-sword subjugation of the Filipinos took on 
the characteristics of the holy war against slavery 
that had been waged half a century earlier. In 
the face of seeming defeat, he never lost faith in 
the ultimate triumph of the American principle 
of democracy. His creed was expressed when, 
speaking at the Anti-Imperialist Conference of 
1900 in Philadelphia, he closed with the words: 
" We have come to the city of the Declaration of 
Independence to drink deep at this fountain of human 
liberty. We here renew our faith in self-government, 
and pledge ourselves to do all that in us lies for its 
preservation. We still cherish the principles for which 
Washington fought and Lincoln died. We hold that 
taxation without representation is still tyranny. We 
declare relentless war on the miners and sappers of 
returning despotism. We will neither compromise nor 
surrender. ' Our reliance is in the love of liberty which 
God has planted in us. Our defence is in the spirit 
which prizes liberty as the heritage of all men in all 
lands everywhere.' " 

The editors of this memorial volume, Messrs. 
G. L. Paddock, A. H. Tohnan, and F. W. 
Gookin, have performed their labor of love with 
intelligence and sympathy. Mr. Paddock is 
the writer of the prefatory " appreciation," and 
has sketched Mr. Smith's life simply and clearly. 
He has also inserted a number of letters read 
at the memorial service of May 20, 1906. From 
one of these letters, sent by Charles Eliot 
Norton, we extract a passage which affords an 
exact characterization of the man. 

" In our long conversations, I was impressed by the 
perfect coordination of his vigorous intelligence with his 
strong moral convictions and clear moral perceptions. 
He was, like most Americans, an idealist, but his ideals 
were higher than those of the crowd, and his guide in 
the pursuit of them was not a blind enthusiasm, but an 
open-eyed good sense. His character was all of a piece, — 
simple, sincere, steadfast. It was his nature to obey the 
call of duty, and to follow its path. This was the inde- 
pendence, this was the courage for which he was praised 
or blamed according to the nature of those who judged 
him. He was an eminent example of the good citizen, 
and in his death not only Chicago but the whole country 
suffers a great loss." 



EDWARD EVERETT HALE. 



At the celebration of his seventieth birthday 
Edward Everett Hale was described by Oliver 
Wendell Holmes, with truth as well as humor, as 
" the living dynamo," — 

" Toiling, still toiling at his endless task, 
With patience such as Sisyphus might ask. 
To flood the paths of ignorance with light, 
To speed the progress of the struggling right." 

And now that the dynamo is finally at rest, and one 
contemplates the amount of work it has accomplished 
— the varied machinery to which it has been the 
motive power, the light and heat its electric pulses 
have furnished to the world, the wireless messages 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



387 



of hope and courage and helpfulness it has been the 
means of sending abroad — one cannot but be more 
than ever struck with the aptness of the image. 

Cradled in the sheets of his father's Boston 
" Advertiser," as he was wont to express it, the lad 
early took to writing. So facile was his youthful 
pen in turning a graceful rhyme that when he was 
graduated from Harvard at seventeen he wrote the 
poem for the class-day exercises. Many other occa- 
sional pieces of verse, for class reunions and other 
college or more general celebrations, followed from 
his pen at different times. Perhaps his stirring lines 
entitled " Alma Mater's Roll," read at the Phi Beta 
Kappa dinner at Harvard in 1875, are the best and 
most characteristic. This and other poems, mostly 
in ballad metre, were collected in his volume of verse 
which he named " For Fifty Years " and published 
just half a century after he had attained his majority. 
The later volume of " New England History in 
Ballads" is only in part his own. Fired with 
patriotism, his stirring ballads are often very 
effective. " New England's Chevy Chase," for 
example, almost makes one smell the gunpowder 
burnt at Lexington and Concord. 

But the incongruity of dwelling on Dr. Hale's 
merits as a poet would be recognized by himself 
first of all. In later life he used to advise young 
writers to give some time to verse-making as an 
agreeable and useful exercise in phrase-making and 
synonym-hunting, not by any means as the serious 
business of life. His own noteworthy contribution 
to literature was in the short story. " The Man 
without a Country," known to thousands of readers 
in many languages, and the almost equally excellent 
jeu d' esprit, " My Double, and How He Undid Me," 
will long be favorites. " In His Name " ranks with 
them, and " Ten Times One is Ten " has gained an 
unexampled renown through the many philanthropic 
organizations — Lend-a-Hand societies, Wadsworth 
clubs, Look-Up leagues, King's Daughters chapters, 
and so on — that have sprung from its suggestions. 
There is fame enough in being the author of these 
short stories, or of the first-named alone, to swell with 
pride a smaller man for the rest of his life ; but their 
author, having adorned with swift hand whatever in 
this department he chose to touch, pushed on to more 
serious labors. 

The essays in history and biography and travel 
which, either alone or in collaboration with son or 
sister, he issued in some profusion, have met with 
popular acceptance, although, as Mr. Edwin D. Mead 
has expressed it, "many of us who study history 
got mad at him, for the moment, as we noted this bit 
of carelessness and that on his vital and fascinating 
page." In fact, his writings had the easy style and 
freedom from pedantry of familiar letters to friends, 
even as his platform addresses and to some extent 
his pulpit utterances had the spontaneity and charm 
of intimate talks to friends. Critics have never 
accounted him a great orator or a g^eat writer ; but 
the world at large, which knows what it likes and is 
intolerant of mere scholarship, as it is of humbug, 



heard him and read him gladly. His " Memories 
of a Hundred Years," the rich reminiscences of a 
wonderfully observant and many-sided octogenarian, 
were widely read and enjoyed, both in serial form 
and as collected into a book ; but they furnished rare 
sport to the keen and pitiless critics of the Edward 
A. Freeman habit of mind. "A New England 
Boyhood " and " James Russell Lowell and his 
Friends " are other important works of a genially 
reminiscent character, and not intended to be scru- 
tinized with a critical miscroscope. Something of 
Walter Scott's, and indeed of Shakespeare's, large- 
minded indifference to small details belonged to this 
great-souled man of deeds as well as letters. 

To enumerate his interests and activities, even 
those having to do with literature and education, 
would be impossible ; yet a few characteristic points 
may be briefly touched upon. In his first pastorate 
at Worcester, not very long after his father had put 
through the early railway line connecting that city 
with Boston, he lent a hand in establishing the Public 
Library and the Natural History Society of his new 
place of residence ; and he also became an active 
member, and for some time president, of the Amer- 
ican Antiquarian Society, which has its headquarters 
at Worcester. He attended the Phi Beta Kappa 
meetings at Cambridge, and served as the society's 
presiding officer, besides filling the part of poet on 
occasion. Omniverous in his reading, he drew and 
read more books from the Congressional Library in 
his winters in Washington, where for the last five 
years he held the office of Chaplain to the Senate, 
than almost anyone else. Fiction in large doses he 
was capable of consuming, together with a wide range 
of historical and scientific works. The learned so- 
cieties to which he belonged need not here be named, 
nor the numerous philanthropic organizations of 
which he was the moving spirit. His advocacy of 
an international parliament and a court of arbitra- 
tion for the pacific adjustment of international dif- 
ferences was begun years before the Hague tribunal 
was dreamed of by others, and it was continued, in 
season and out of season, until the prophet's vision 
was realized. No less dear to him was his plan 
for universal harmony and brotherhood in religion. 
At his last public appearance, not quite two weeks 
before his death (June 10), he pleaded this cause 
before the Massachusetts Convention of Congrega- 
tional Ministers. 

Not soon wUl the world again see the like of this 
New Englander in whose veins flowed the confluent 
streams of Hale and Everett blood. Contemplating 
his massive head, his rugged features, and his tower- 
ing form, one could not but feel that he had been 
cast in a special mould and the mould destroyed as 
soon as it had served its purpose. If ever it could be 
said of anyone that " the style is the man," it must 
be said of Edward Everett Hale. To treat his style 
as a thing apart from his powerful personality were 
as futile as to study the rustling of the oak tree's foli- 
age with eyes shut to its majestic outlines and mag- 
nificent proportions. 



388 



THE DIAL 



[June 16, 



ROUSS EAU IN 1909. 

I. 

Once more as we approach the completion of the 
second century since his birth (June 28, 1712) do 
books and events combine to direct the world's atten- 
tion to Jean-Jacques Rousseau. It was at Mont- 
morency that he composed the " Nouvelle H^oise " 
and the famous letter to d'Alembert; it is at Mont- 
morency that M. Briand and other celebrities have 
saluted the author " with emotion " as the greatest 
workman in free science, in free thought ; as the 
"triumphant poet of Nature and of Liberty," — all 
this in dedicating a statue to his memory. Mean- 
while, across the Channel Professor Churton Collins 
was giving Rousseau a rather unenviable place in 
the last book to which he signed his name,* and Mr. 
Francis Gribble was putting the finishing touches to 
the volume which he has alluringly entitled " Jean- 
Jacques Rousseau and the Women he Loved." f 

It is not a pleasing personality which Mr. Gribble 
seeks to reconstruct for us; it is a characteristic 
figure, that of the Rue Emile at Montmorency, — 
more characteristic than that of the Place du Pan- 
theon, for with the three-cornered hat and the long 
cane the new Rousseau carries — a wild-flower. We 
have, this time, the lover of "God's out-of-doors"; 
and there is deep fidelity in the sculptor's conception. 
Finally, the raising of a statue to the " citizen of 
Geneva" is no merely formal homage to genius. 
Jean-Jacques remains to-day more than a name in 
eighteenth-century literature. Someone has said that 
there was a bit of the Don Quixote in the philosopher 
whom Mr. Gribble makes out such a Bel- Ami ; and, 
whatever the personality may be adjudged, there can 
be no disposition to belittle the influence. Rousseau 
has been a source of inspiration in the framing as in 
the interpretation of our Constitution ; he has acted 
upon the Third Republic, besides making it possible ; 
has acted upon every democratic movement. With 
the break-down of dogmatic Christianity, his senti- 
mental view has more influence than ever in the 
religious field. " Rousseauism, in fine, remains a 
force in the modern world, and it is vain to attempt 
to discredit it by the primitive expedient of blacken- 
ing the character of its author." 

Contemporary criticism has indeed done more to 
whitewash than to blacken Jean-Jacques; and no- 
where has this tendency been stronger than in the 
two-volume " Study in Criticism " devoted to Rous- 
seau by a third English writer, Mrs. Frederika 
Macdonald.t A war of ideas and of allegations 
still wages over the character and inspiration of the 
man : the spirit of impressionism which he personi- 
fied is active to-day in art and education and politics. 
He is a contemporary of Clemenceau and Fallieres 
and Briand ; of the French authors and the Sorbonne 
professors — yes, and of our own. Who has not come 

•Voltaire. Montesquieu, and Rousseau in England. By 
J. Churton Collins. London : Eveleigrh Nash. 1908. 

t New York : Charles Scribner's Sons. 1908. 

J Jean-Jacques Rousseau: A New Study in Criticism. By 
Frederika Macdonald. New York : G. P. Putnam's Sons. 



under the spell of the " Confessions " ? The school- 
boy reads them " on the sly "; the man of letters, — 
it has been as true of Hazlitt in England as of Daudet 
in France, — stands them by Montaigne on his book- 
shelf. And since they have erected that statue at 
Montmorency, another has gone up at Ermenonville. 
It was there that he died, just a hundred and thirty- 
one years ago, of an apoplexy : and it is only to-day 
that the last suspicions of the naturalness of that 
lonely death, in the presence of Th^rfese alone, have 
been finally dismissed. But the man himself — he 
is not to be dismissed, even at this late day. The 
dedication of that statue at Ermenonville is far from 
being the last we shall hear of him. All our distinctly 
modern institutions are, in a sense, his monuments. 

II. 

There is, none the less, a new manner of appre- 
ciation of Rousseau. We were used to hearing such 
declarations as this : " He announced and prepared 
the great movement whence has issued modern 
France," with superadded compliment in the super- 
lative. Now, the tone is one of apology. Popular 
government, in its turn, is on trial : representative 
government, the universal suffrage, are no longer 
signals for prolonged cheering. France is to-day 
ruefully regarding the debauchery of her legislature, 
quite as we eye the blatant fatuity of ours. All this 
is reflected in the tone of the speeches made at 
Ermenonville, at the unveiling of the statue referred 
to ; the Minister of Labor, orator of the day, confessed 
that Rousseau's work cannot satisfy us; confessed that 
*' with the swinging of the pendulum, we can readily, 
and without merit of our own, attest the social false- 
ness of this or that system, the caducitS of this or 
that construction." M. Viviani concludes that, to do 
Rousseau justice, we must take his handicaps into 
account ; " we must not crush under the weight of 
acquired progress the original inventor whose limited 
powers (courts moyens) were in themselves, for the 
times, a proof of genius." All this would be trite 
enough if it were not for the source of the remarks, — 
were it not, in short, that democratic France now 
defends the Father of the Nineteenth Century, where 
a moment ago she was canonizing him. " Reaction " 
has once more set in. 

Outside of France, Rousseau's influence has been 
greatest upon education ; it is, then, significant when 
one reads in a paper on Rousseau in the latest volume 
of the " Shelburne Essays " * — a paper that has some- 
thing to say of the principles worked out in " Emile," 
and of that book's value both as a protest against 
pedagogical repression and as a volume " full of sug- 
gestions of permanent value " — this most pointed 
clause : " There is a growing belief among a certain 
class that the fundamental thesis of the book has 
worked, and is still working, like a poison in the blood 
of society." If this be true, if in our modern scheme 
of education we are making instinct the basis and not 
experienced judgment, impulse and not control, — 

* Shelburne Essays, Sixth series. By Paul Elmer More. New 
York: G. P. Putnam's Sons. 1909. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



889 



why, welcome then the growing loss of faith in Rous- 
seau and his principles. For that matter, the evi- 
dences of sharp reaction remain only too slight ; we 
find none of them in the little hook on "Jean-Jacques 
Rousseau and Education from Nature," translated 
from the French of M. Gabriel Compayr^.* Perhaps 
it is partly in the hope of developing an opposition, 
that the essayist has spoken out ; if so, it is evident 
that he does not stand altogether alone. In "one of the 
strongest and most earnest books written on the sub- 
ject in recent years. Professor Irving Babbitt has not 
merely attacked the modern applications of " Emile ": 
he has not scrupled to name names. President 
Eliot is, for him, the type of modified Rousseauist ; 
reminding him of Bossuet's remark about Marcus 
Brutus. " Brutus," says Bossuet, "kept on talking 
liberty when he should have been talking restraint, 
and that in the interests of liberty itself." t Never 
were we farther from venturing Lowell's word : 
" We cannot trace many practical results to his [Rous- 
seau's] teaching." He threatens rather to become a 
fetich of criticism (as Mr. More has written). And 
not of criticism alone ; for in aU the fields where his 
seed was sowed, in literature, and education, and 
thought political or social or religious, there has been 
an action upon us not directly alone, but also as com- 
municated through five generations of disciples and 
imitators. If it is not everyone who knows so much 
as the titles of his books, it does not follow that 
Rousseau has been overtopped by his contemporaries, 
Voltaire and Diderot ; but rather that his ideas have 
become ours by some mysterious process of absorp- 
tion. Writers of the Revolutionary period, and after, 
have impressed his thought upon us in countless 
modifications ; and many of his wddest theories are 
our plain facts in law or pedagogy. It is, after all, 
something to write of an author that in five genera- 
tions his audacities have become our commonplaces. 
At times, indeed, his work was but to popularize the 
ideas of his predecessors. This is true of every critic 
of life. A cei'tain Benedictine monk has written a 
thick volume concerning the " Plagiats de Rousseau "; 
Dom Cayot might have been in better business, leav- 
ing this labor to some candidate for the American 
doctorate. The best of Rousseau's work was written 
to the dictation of his own intelligence — and sensi- 
bility ; it is he who wrote (as others have not failed 
to write after him) : " I know my heart, and I know 
men. I am not constituted as any of those that I 
have seen; I dare to believe that I am not con- 
stituted as any who exist." And where this " unique " 
person was very far from inventing — where he bor- 
rowed from Locke and Montaigne and even Rabelais 
— he revivified and transfigured. ' ' What is genius ? " 
asks Edward FitzGerald in " Polonius "; " what but 
the faculty of seizing things from right and left — 
here a bit of marble, there a bit of brass — and 
breathing life into them ! " 

• Issued in the series of " Pioneers in Education." T. Y. 
Crowell & Co. 1908. 

t Literature and the American College. Essay on Bacon and 
Rousseau. By Irving: Babbitt. Boston: Houghton, MifQin & 
Co. 1908. 



IIL 

It is because Jean-Jacques is more than the 
"citizen of Geneva" — is, in fine, the prominent 
citizen of contemporary France that we have already 
found him — that such a matter as the course of 
lectures delivered by M. Jules Lemaitre before the 
Soci^t^ des Conferences in Paris raised at the time 
a hubbub such as we could never get up over Jeffer- 
son and Hamilton and Tom Paine rolled all in one. 
Fancy Chicago, for example, expressing its apprecia- 
tion of one of these men by means of " Lyric Medi- 
tations," band-music, and " antique dances by fresh 
and pretty young girls clad in clear colors ! " Yet 
these were among the " f eatm-es " of the manifesto/- 
tion against M. Lemaitre's lectures on Jean-Jacques, 
published since then in book-form, both in France and 
here.* Bubbling over with malice, written against 
rather than about Rousseau, these lectures inspired, 
not the mass-meeting alone, but such newspaper 
eloquence as this, used in describing the Sorbonne 
manifestation : " A room filled to the crushing- point, 
an enthusiastic crowd, eloquent apologists, — nothing 
was lacking to clear the memory of this universal 
thinker." How natural that neither facts nor logic 
should preoccupy his followers, since the leader him- 
self appealed to all that is below, and to much that 
is above, the Reason ! 

One is fascinated by the fine humor of it all. 
That demonstration against M. Lemaitre's lectures 
was not organized in his publishers' interest, as one 
might suspect. It was even taken quite seriously by 
the radicals of Paris, of all France, of Switzei'land. 
They sent their delegates ; the Government sent its 
minister. We Americans reserve our pyrotechnics 
and hysteria for presidential elections, and maintain 
a perfect indifference, en masse., where a candidate's 
personality is not concerned. As a people, we under- 
value ideas quite as we overrate action. We do not 
see in ideas, as a people of philosophic temper must, 
the springs of that action we so blindly exalt. Mean- 
time, France has paid her rather absurd homage to 
the " founder of modern society." 

And yet the futility of developing or seeking to 
develop a " Rousseau philosophy " is realized even in 
France. The contradictions that his genius offers 
are not only contradictions between doctrine and 
practice, but between doctrine and doctrine. His 
panegyrists themselves confess that one must look 
to Rousseau for tendencies rather than for a system. 
In his " First Discourse " — upon the Arts and the 
Sciences — he maintains that man is naturally virtu- 
ous ; that he is a victim of that corrupting influence 
which we broadly describe as " civilization." In the 
very starting-point — in this insistence upon the 
superiority of the "state of nature" — lies the root 
of the evil. That the theory leads, logically, back to 
savagery itself, as the ideal state, was pointed out even 
lay Rousseau's contemporaries ; to-day, M. Lemaitre 

• Jean- Jacques Rousseau, par Jules Lemaitre, de 1' Academic 
Francaise. Paris: 1907. English translation by Mme. Chas. 
Bigot (Jeanne Mairet) published by the McClure Co., New 
York, 1908. 



390 



THE DIAL 



[June 16, 



dwells upon his failure adequately to describe what 
he meant by Nature as the primal som'ce of the con- 
fusion into which discussion of his theories plunges 
us. Nor is all this an academic matter. Leaving 
the question of education aside, Rousseau's influence 
is marked upon contemporary leaders in every field 
of thought and of endeavor ; he has innoculated the 
whole world with his sentimental optimism and his 
humanitarian ideals. Nowhere is this more true than 
in the north of Europe ; one sees his formulas at work 
in Ibsen's dramas, unsettling and inconclusive as they 
are ; the influence has affected publicists, too : Dos- 
toievsky is one of them, in Russia ; Tikhvinsky 
another. " Rousseau has been my master since the 
age of fifteen," writes Tolstoi in a letter. 

One is tempted to cite the brilliant sayings of 
Lemaitre in the book he has written so lately. The 
crux of it is here : seeing in the " H^loise," the 
" Emile," the " Social Contract," and the other books, 
only so many expressions of the chaos reigning in 
the writer's own life, one is spared the task of recon- 
ciling the irreconcilable. We need not quote M. 
Lemaitre's sallies at Rousseau's expense. It requires 
no Chesterton — no Lemaitre — to compose para- 
doxes about him. Rousseau sowed truths and half- 
truths with an open hand, and expressed them in 
terms of life. He expounded and maintained the 
Social Contract, and precipitated the Terror. He 
preached religious toleration, and declared that those 
who could not accept the " Profession of Faith of the 
Savoyard Vicar " ought to be put to death. He 
composed the " Devin du Village "; to equalize mat- 
ters, he wrote the letter against stage-performances. 
Of all his works, none is more truly the product of 
his peculiar genius than the book of which he could 
write to a friend : " You know well that the ' Nou- 
velle Hdloise ' should not figure in the list of my 
writings." He preached the cult of virtue, — only 
it was vice masquerading in her sister's robes. 
Lastly — most notoriously — he dwelt upon the 
parent's duty to his children, and sent five infants, 
one after another, to the foundlings' home. These 
are some of the facts about Rousseau, some of the 
issues of the controversy. Twenty years after writ- 
ing his essay on Jean-Jacques, Lowell spent several 
weeks in re-reading him. " A very complex char- 
acter," was the conclusion he came to ; " one feels 
as if the two poles of the magnet were somehow 
mixed in him, so that hardly has he attracted you 
powerfully, when you are benumbed with as strong 
a shock of repulsion. ... A monstrous liar, but 
always the first dupe of his own lie." 

IV. 

It is precisely because Rousseau is the precursor of 
modern society and of modern literature, eulogized 
by his partisans, that such a critic as M. Lemaitre 
takes up the cudgels against him, and M. Lasserre^ 
the writer of a treatise upon French romanticism, 
brands him an anarchist ; * while to Richepin and 

* Le Romatisme Francais. Par Pierre Lasserre. Paris, 1907, 



Ernest-Charles, and the other radicals in poetry and 
journalism and politics, Lemaitre and Lasserre seem 
friends, not of " order," but of the old order — the 
ancien regime. There is no middle ground in the 
France of to-day : one is atheist, revolutionist (i. e., 
social revolutionist), Rousseauist, — or else one is 
Catholic-reactionary. It is not greatly to be won- 
dered at if the book of a former " Nationalist " poli- 
tician is attacked by these rhetorical radicals ; nor is 
it to be doubted that they will denounce Mr. Gribble's 
book. The one challenges remark by its glittering 
cruelty of phrase ; the other attracts attention as a 
good, specimen of that " documented " history which 
is the specialty of our little age, and as something 
shabbier even than court-memoirs at their most sor- 
did. As for M. Lemaitre's volume, it shows us at 
least how the tide is running in some channels. The 
descendants of the Jacobins of '89 and '93 have 
expelled the last of the monks and have stripped the 
Church of its property ; they have added to M. 
Briand's ministry of " cults " the administration of 
justice ; what then of the astonishment if the ''friends 
of restraint," the enemies of that individualism 
which, according to M. Lasserre, has meant the ruin 
of the individual, describe the philosophy of Rous- 
seau as " the most subversive ever let loose among 
men " ? Now the Genevan is likened to a virus ; 
now he is a raging lion, a miserable, a Protestant. 
For your reactionary in literature as well as in poli- 
tics, his crime consists, in g^eat part, in having engen- 
dered modern romanticism, — the genius of evil, the 
mal moderne. In condemning with a fine impar- 
tiality both Romanticism and Rousseau, le roman- 
tisme integral, M. Lemaitre contents himself with 
observing that there is not a theory, not a system, 
not a form of sensibility, such as passes by the name 
of "romantic," that does not proceed from Jean- 
Jacques' writings. Rien dans le romantisme qui 
ne soit de Rousseau. Rien dans Rousseau qui ne 
soil romantique. "Chateaubriand, Madame de 
Stael, Senancour, Lamartine, Hugo, Musset, Sand, 
Michelet, — such," concludes the critic, "are the 
literary offspring of Jean-Jacques." Why not say, 
briefly, modern French literature ? 

It is not easy to know what to think. Perhaps 
all these lectures and demonstrations and critical 
essays and statues and histories of the-women-he- 
loved will have the happy effect of sending some of 
us back to the writer himself ; we are bound to find 
something worth while there, since we may either 
amuse ourselves by picking flaws in his books, or 
taste a pleasure of the sensuous sort in absorbing 
that richness of style and enjoying the delights of 
vagabondage, of greatness, and of caressing the 
sensibilities. We cannot — to look at it from that 
standpoint — we cannot, at any rate, wholly despise 
the problems presented by one whose " Discourse 
upon Equality among Men " meant so much to the 
signers of our own " Declaration of Independence "; 
whose treatise upon education, shaped as an account 
of that promising young Emilius, is doing its work 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



391 



whenever we apply the elective system at our 
colleges. 

Let us hope that by the time we have re-read 
some of his books there will have been published an 
accoimt of Rousseau that shall be at once scholarly, 
sane, and convincing. One expects extremes in 
any discussion of a man who was both more and 
less than philosopher and novelist and reformer of 
society and educational innovator and revolutionist 
(religious and political); most of all must one look 
for extremes in the French criticism of Rousseau. 
It will be much if his disciples keep theii* promise 
to give practical vent to their enthusiasm, and the 
Jean-Jacques Society of Geneva issues its critical 
edition of his works — not collected for more than 
three-quarters of a century, and never definitively 
published. That is not enough : the controversial 
state of opinion suggests — notwithstanding the fact 
that each year produces its crowd of new books on 
Rousseau— our need of such a study of him as I have 
just referred to. Though we have Lord Morley's 
biography, thirty busy years have passed since its 
appearance. We await a new presentation, — but 
who is competent to undertake it? The writer 
must be something of a philosopher, for he has an 
idealogue to consider ; he must also be a critic of 
poetry, for Rousseau engendered an age of lyricism. 
Lastly, he must approach his task without too com- 
plete an ignorance of social and political issues ; and 
yet he must not mix his politics and his belles- 
lettres as hopelessly as the French do. It is not 
likely that we shall soon have that satisfactory study 
of Rousseau : he is almost too completely the first 
great cosmopolitan, and the link of past and present. 
Besides, where is the critic and philosopher whom I 
have j ust described ? Warren Barton Blake. 



CASUAL COMMENT. 



An author of inscriptions on stone, bronze, 
and other perdurable substances, can more confi- 
dently predict a long life for his productions than can 
the writer of books. That President Eliot — or, as 
we must now say. Dr. Eliot, since his relinquishment 
of authority to President Lowell — is one of the most 
prolific and successful writers of inscriptions our 
country has known, has not been borne in mind by 
everyone in the chorus of eulogy that has accom- 
panied his retirem^t from high office. The twelve 
tablets on the splendid Water Gate at the World's 
Columbian Exposition, the fine inscription on the 
Robert Gould Shaw monument in Boston, and the 
eloquent words inscribed on the Soldiers' Monument 
on Boston Common — these are among the best- 
known examples of his admirable taste in the choice 
of forceful and fitting eulogy for monumental pur- 
poses, although few who have read these examples 
of terse and elegant English know from whose pen 
they came. It is hoped that the beautiful marble 
Union Station at Washington and other notable 



structures now in building on Capitol Hill will be 
adorned with appropriate epigraphs from the same 
skilful hand. Dr. Eliot's long practice in presenting 
candidates for academic degrees, each with a preg- 
nant word of suitable characterization, must have 
helped to develop in him this faculty for turning 
well-rounded and marvellously compact phrases for 
use on public monuments. Why would not a course 
in inscription-writing be good for students in the 
English department ? No better corrective of dif- 
fuseness and vagueness could be devised. Further- 
more, as already remarked, no work of literature 
has so favorable a chance of surviving the ravages 
of time as the inscription. In the far-distant future 
the excavators of buried Boston may unearth the 
Shaw tablet, but find the books of the neighboring 
Athenaeum and Public Library all crumbled to dust. 
It is true the writer's fame will be anonymous, but 
so is that of the composer of the imperishable lines 
on the Rosetta Stone. 

Two opinions of Shelley, violently in contrast, 
and each having the authority of a great name 
(though the greatness in one case has not yet been 
established on a broad and everlasting basis), chanced 
to come to our notice almost simultaneously. They 
afford a good illustration of the notorious disagree- 
ment of critics, and help to strengthen the plain 
man's confidence in the worth (to himself, at least) 
of his own judgment. In Hazlitt's essay " On People 
of Sense " occurs this passage : " Poetry acts by sym- 
pathy with nature, that is, with the natural impulses, 
customs, and imaginations of men, and is, on that 
account, always popular, delightful, and at the same 
time instructive. It is nature moralizing and idealiz- 
ing for us ; inasmuch as, by showing us things as they 
are, it implicitly teaches us what they ought to be ; 
and the grosser feelings, by passing through the strain- 
ers of this imaginary, wide-extended experience, 
acquire an involuntary tendency to higher objects. 
Shakespeare was, in this sense, not only one of the 
greatest poets, but one of the greatest moralists that 
we have. Those who read him are the happier, bet- 
ter, and wiser for it. No one (that I know of) is the 
happier, better, or wiser for reading Mr. Shelley's 
Prometheus Unbound. One thing is that nobody 
reads it. And the reason for one or both is the 
same, that he is not a poet, but a sophist, a theorist, 
a controversial writer in verse. He gives us, for 
representations of things, rhapsodies of words." 
And so on, with increasing severity. The gratui- 
tous element in this introduction of Shelley, who was 
still living, is what most strikes the reader. In sharp 
contrast with Hazlitt's condemnatory outburst is the 
glowing eulogy of Shelley from the pen of the late 
Francis Thompson, published first in " The Dublin 
Review," where it attracted so much attention as to 
make necessary a second edition of the number 
containing it, and now republished in book form. 
Readers will note with interest the fuller account 
of it given elsewhere in this issue of The Dial. 



392 



THE DIAL 



[June 16, 



The death of R. Nisbet Bain, at fifty-four, 
takes from the world of letters a man of varied 
talents, of admirable industry, and of noteworthy 
achievement. His position of assistant librarian at 
the British Museum gave him ready access to and 
familiarity with departments of literature in which 
the workers are comparatively few. In Scandina- 
vian and in Slavonic history he made himself an 
authority, and published a number of books. " Gus- 
tavus III. and his Contemporaries," " Charles XII. 
and the Collapse of the Swedish Empire," " The 
Pupils of Peter the Great," with works on Peter's 
daughter the Empress Elizabeth and his grandson 
Peter III., and one entitled " The First Romanovs, 
1613-1725," are among his more important pro- 
ductions. An excellent life of Hans Andersen also 
came from his busy pen a few years ago ; and be- 
tween whiles he amused himself with turning several 
of Jdkai's romances from Hungarian into English — 
his struggles with the idiosyncrasies of that fearful 
and wonderful language being touched upon in his 
preface to " The Hungarian Nabob." Ruthenian 
and Russian and Finnish and we know not how 
many other difficult tongues were mastered by him, 
in a literary way. In his fondness for hard brain- 
work he was a veritable glutton, and one cannot but 
suspect that the indulgence of this appetite may have 
shortened his days. . . . 

The foreigner's opinion of English spelling 
may not be exactly what the native imagines it to 
be. Professor Albert Schinz of Bryn Mawr, whose 
mother tongue is French, and whose practical 
acquaintance with our language is of recent date, 
contributes a noteworthy article to " The North 
American Review " on the prospects of English as a 
world-language. Our spelling reformers have urged 
the need of simplified spelling if other nations are 
ever to accept English as the international speech. 
But Professor Schinz declares our spelling to be no 
source of trouble to the foreigner; it is our pro- 
nunciation that chiefly worries him, and this is 
simply incapable of phonetic representation with 
our alphabet. If, he says, the spelling reform move- 
ment " proposes to make English more acceptable 
to strangers as an international language, it is en- 
tirely mistaken and had better stop its campaign at 
once." A final word of good sense is uttered on the 
undesirability of letting any one language suffer the 
flattening and de-individualizing that must result 
from its adaptation to universal use. Thus do there 
seem to be more reasons than a few why English 
should continue to be uncompromisingly itself, with 
all its written and spoken marks of sturdy individ- 
uality. . . , 

The handwriting of culture, or at least the 
handwriting of persons who write much, tends for 
some reason toward the perpendicular. The pen- 
manship of men of letters in more recent times has 
generally been small, compact, and approaching the 
upright. Thackeray, Leslie Stephen, Longfellow, 
Holmes, Eugene Field, all wrote the small, vertical 



hand that is so economical of space and commonly 
so easy to read. That this time-and-space-saving 
style is a modern development admits of obvious 
explanation. The larger, slanting, more conven- 
tional handwriting of Dr. Johnson and his contem- 
poraries was in harmony with the leisure and 
formality of a less-crowded age. It must be chiefly 
the more or less instinctive effort to save time that 
now causes a writer's style to strip itself of super- 
fluities to an increasing extent as he gi-ows older — 
and this of course has a wider application than to 
mere script. Strange, in view of these facts, is the 
reaction now showing itself in some quarters against 
the teaching of vertical penmanship. In France, 
for example, where educational details of this sort 
are intelligently ordered, a special commission has 
just reported in favor of a return to the old-fashioned 
forward-tipping script, and this for both ophthal- 
mological and orthopaedic reasons. Yet one might 
safely wager that the French children of to-day who 
are to be the litterateurs of to-mori"ow will let no 
polysyllabic pronouncements of government com- 
missions stand in the way of a more serviceable 
form of penmanship when the stress shall come 
upon them. . , , 

A CASE OF inverted PLAGIARISM, as one critic 
expressed it, is seen in the latest play of the popu- 
lar German playwright, Herr Hauptmann. His 
" Griselda," as reports from Berlin describe it, 
appears to be a violent departure from tradition. 
Boccaccio and Chaucer and all the other countless 
chroniclers of the heart-rending history of the patient 
Griselda would certainly be astonished to behold 
what the German writer has made of her. There 
comes upon the stage, not the meek, long-suffering, 
beautiful and virtuous wife of the old story, but a 
loud-voiced, muscular, short-waisted, square-framed, 
raw-boned, and hard-fisted peasant Mddchen, ever 
ready with the weapons wherewith nature has 
equipped her, and even resorting in extremity to 
such handy accessories as knives and buckets of 
water. Her vituperative explosion, '■^ Du hist ein 
Schweinhund" to her lover, is the acme of un- 
Griselda-like language. One critic has suggested 
that an allegory is intended, and that this belligerent 
Griselda is meant as an impersonation of Germany 
asserting herself after a period of comparative subor- 
dination and tarnished repute among the European 
powers. Here is food for English fancy and pos- 
sible cause for wild alarm in ATbion. 

Mrs. Julia Ward Howe at ninety may well 
be accounted the pride and joy of literary Boston — 
if not of unliterary Boston (if such there be) as well. 
The day that saw her entrance upon the last decade 
of a full century brought her more than her usual 
number of birthday tributes and honors, and closed 
with a family dinner party, at which, besides her 
son and daughters, a good number of grandchildren 
and seven great-grandchildren were present and 
joined in the demolition of twenty or more birth- 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



393 



day cakes that had arrived during the day — cake 
enough, in fact, to enable the recipient to accomplish 
the impossible feat proverbially associated with that 
particular edible. Mrs. Howe's long survival of her 
famous husband, who died a third of a century ago 
at the age of seventy-five, combines with her own 
marked and gifted personality to render her fame 
a thing quite apart from his. Eight years ago we 
were celebrating the centennial of Dr. Howe's birth. 
It is by no means wild or extravagant to cherish 
now an increasing hope that Mrs. Howe may herself 
be with us to join in the celebration of her hundredth 
birthday in 1919. 

The cipher microbe works fearful havoc with 
common-sense when it once gets into the brain. 
The patient sees ciphers everywhere, and every 
page of print becomes a puzzle in acrostics. Mr. 
W. S. Booth's late astonishing performance, " Some 
Acrostic Signatures of Francis Bacon," might be 
taken for either the jeu d'esprit of a wag or the 
insane utterance of a monomaniac, were it not that 
the author is regarded by his friends as a rational 
being writing in a serious mood. If anyone has 
the curiosity to make the experiment, he will be 
surprised to discover how easily, by the Boothian 
mode of procedure, acrostic signatures, whether of 
Bacon or of Booth or of anyone else, can be ciphered 
out in any piece of prose or verse, even in the col- 
umns of his daily newspaper. We do not need, 
though it is reassuring enough to have it. Dr. Rolf e's 
verdict that the Booth " discoveries " are not likely 
to prove any more significant than "the foolery of 
Donnelly and the other cipherers." 

A STAGE CENSORSHIP BY REPUTABLE ACTORS is a 

suggestion that has in it both novelty and promise. 
Such a plan is announced as under contemplation by 
the Chicago branch of the Actors' Church Alliance, 
a body that includes not only members of the the- 
atrical profession, but also ministers and laymen 
interested in raising the standard of the acted drama. 
It is proposed to institute, as a permanent function 
of this branch of the Alliance, a discussion of all 
modern plays presented in Chicago, with special 
reference to their moral character and their influ- 
ence on society. This is a movement for reform 
from within — the only real reform — which is of 
good augury. The inevitable notoriety and malo- 
dorous success given to objectionable plays by loud 
and public denunciation from without may be at 
least partly avoided by quiet and intelligent action 
on the part of conscientious players themselves. 

Abdul Hamid the book-collector having re" 
tired (reluctantly) from the business of misgoverning 
Turkey, his fine assortment of Oriental books and 
manuscripts at the Yildiz Kiosk will now probably 
be made less inaccessible to students and to other 
interested visitors. Literary treasures gathered 
during the fourteenth, fifteenth, and sixteenth cen- 



turies from Greek monasteries, and at first stacked 
away in the library of the old seraglio, are soon 
likely to find more appreciative readers than the 
women of the harem. The new Sultan, Rechad 
Effendi, otherwise Mohammed the Fifth, is said to 
be a book-lover, somewhat of a poet, and not with- 
out liberal ideas. His Turkish translation of a 
volume of Persian poems is commended by connois- 
seurs as a meritorious piece of work. It is to be 
hoped that as soon as he and his family get well 
settled after their spring moving, he will open his 
library doors, and open them wide. 



COMMUNICA TIONS. 



THEODORE ROOSEVELT AND THOMAS PAINE. 
(To the Editor of The Dial.) 

Replying to the letter signed " Inquirer," in your 
issue of June 1, 1 regret to state that it is only too true 
that Theodore Roosevelt, in a work intended to pass 
for authentic biography, did apply to Thomas Paine the 
triply false description cited by your correspondent, 
which called out the just reprehension of the London 
" Nation " as quoted. The expression occurs in the 
biography of Gouverneur Morris. I have not the book 
at hand, and hence cannot give the chapter or page ; but 
it will be readily found, as forming an extraordinary 
feature of the excuse given for Morris's failure to 
interfere on Paine's behalf, when the latter was impris- 
oned in France, and menaced with death. It is still 
more unfortunately true that Mr. Roosevelt's attention 
has been called to his error, but that he has failed to 
find time for the re-examinatiou which he had promised ; 
and the gross misrepresentation forms part of the latest 
editions of the biography. During the closing months 
of Mr. Roosevelt's presidential term, he refused even 
to see Mr. M. M. Mangasarian, the well-known Liberal 
lecturer of Chicago, who made a trip to Washington 
for the express purpose of laying the detailed facts before 
Mr. Roosevelt and offering him an opportunity to honor 
himself by making this centennial year of Paine's death 
an occasion of performing an act of tardy justice to his 
memory. 

The enormous national ingratitude to Paine stands 
recorded as one of the most serious blemishes in the 
history of the Republic; but the false picture created 
in the public mind by a most discreditable theologicum 
odium has begun to give place to a true appreciation of 
the inestimable services rendered to American liberty by 
the Author-Hero of the Revolution. The now classic 
biography of Paine by the late Moncure D. Conway dealt 
the final death-blow to the anti-Paine myth. 

James F. Mortox, Jr. 

New York, June 5, 1909. 

(To the Editor of The Dial.) 
In reference to the inquiry of a correspondent in the 
issue of your journal for June 1 (p. 360) as to Mr. 
Roosevelt's responsibility for a term of rank opprobrium 
applied to Thomas Paine, as charged and severely rebuked 
by the London " Nation," I beg to submit the following: 
It would be pleasant to believe that Mr. Roosevelt did 
not refer to Thomas Paine as a " filthy little atheist." 
It seems incredible that the man who has sounded from 



394 



THE DIAL 



[June 16, 



the housetop the tocsin of a " Square Deal " could be 
guilty of so great an injustice, or could lower himself to 
the use of billingsgate in a supposedly serious literary 
production. Unfortunately for Mr. Roosevelt's reputa- 
tion, however, there can be no doubt as to his responsi- 
bility for the vile and absolutely false epithet which he 
bestowed upon one of the truest patriots of all time. 

Mr. Roosevelt's attack upon Thomas Paine will be 
found in Chapter X. of his life of Gouverneur Morris, 
in the American Statesmen series, edited by Mr. John 
T. Morse and pubhshed by Messrs. Houghton, Mifflin 
& Co. As he uses the words " filthy little atheist " with- 
out quotation marks, he evidently claims them as his 
own. I append the interesting passage in which the 
words occur. Mr. Roosevelt is speaking of Paris at the 
time of the Jacobin uprising, when Morris was American 
Minister to France. 

" One man had a very narrow escape. This was Thomas 
Paine, the Englishman, who had at one period rendered such 
a striking service to the cause of American independence, 
while the rest of his life had been as ignoble as it w;is varied. 
He had been elected to the Convention, and, having sided 
with the Gironde, was thrown into prison by the Jacobins. 
He at once asked Morris to demand him as an American 
citizen ; a title to which he of course had no claim. Morris 
refused to interfere too actively, judging rightly tliat Paine 
would be saved by his own insignificance, and would serve his 
own interests best by keeping still. So the filthy little atheist 
had to stay in prison, ' where he amused himself with pub- 
lishing a pamphlet against Jesus Christ.' There are infidels 
and infidels ; Paine belonged to the variety — whereof America 
possesses at present one or two shining examples — that appar- 
ently esteems a bladder of dirty water as the proper weapon 
with which to assail Christainity." (Roosevelt's life of 
Gouverneur Morris, p. 288-9.) 

Frederic M. Wood. 

Cleveland, Ohio, June 7, 1909. 



THE IMPORTATION OF COPYRIGHTED BOOKS. 
(To the Editor of The Dial.) 

Owing to my absence in the country, I have only 
to-day had an opportunity of reading the communication 
from Mr. Steiner and Mr. Cutter (representing the 
American Library Copyright League) printed in The 
Dial of May 16, concerning the matter of the importa- 
tion of copyrighted books — a communication written, as 
the Librarians state, for the purpose of correcting certain 
so-called "glaring misstatements " contained in a letter 
of my own which was printed in The Dial of April 16. 

The main purpose of my letter was to point out a 
serious anomaly in our new Copyright statute in the 
provision concerning the importation of copyrighted 
books. The law undertakes to give to the author and 
to the author's assigns " exclusive control " over his pro- 
duction — such control as is given under all the copyright 
statutes of the world. Our law includes, however, certain 
provisions which practically do away with such control. 
I pointed out that the clause in the law of 1891 con- 
ceding to librarians, to associations, and to individuals the 
privilege of importing, without reference to the permis- 
sion of the owner of the American copyright, books that 
had secured American copyright, constituted a material 
change in the existing Copyright law of the United States 
and made this law inconsistent with the Copyright laws 
of other countries. 

I stated further that this provision was " interpolated 
into the Act during the last days of the Session," and 
" without any opportunity being afforded for considera- 
tion or discussion." The Librarians call this " an abso- 



lutely false statement," and point out that the matter 
was " debated in the Senate on several occasions." It 
was perfectly evident from the context that my statement 
had reference not to discussions in the Senate, but to 
consideration in the conferences and at the Congressional 
hearings. The law of 1891 was brought into shape after 
conferences and hearings before the Congressional Com- 
mittees, which had gone on during a term of nearly five 
years. I speak with personal knowledge when I state 
that at no time during these conferences, or at any one 
of the hearings before the Committees of Congress at 
which those having a right to be heard on the subject of 
copyright were asked to present information for the guid- 
ance of the members, was any suggestion brought up for 
the undermining of the well-accepted principle of the 
American Copyright law in regard to the " absolute con- 
trol " being conceded to the owner of the copyright. This 
proposition for a practically unrestricted importation of 
copyrighted books was first brought up in the Senate after 
the conferences and hearings had been closed, and without 
any opportunity being given to those having knowledge 
of the subject for making clear to the Senators the neces- 
sary result of such a material change in the Copyright 
statutes. A similar course of action was taken in the 
final shaping of the statute that has just been enacted, 
several important provisions in which were materially 
modified after all the hearings had been terminated, and 
when it was supposed that the bill, as brought into print 
at the close of the hearings, represented a final consensus 
of opinion on the essential matters that had been in 
controversy. 

Your correspondents contend further that my state- 
ment that the Copyright law of Great Britain secures 
for the owner of the copyright and for his assigns any 
such exclusive control of copyright, or authority to 
prevent the importation of foreign editions of the books 
so copyrighted, is " absolutely unfounded." I have for 
many years had some direct knowledge of and experi- 
ence in the business of buying and selling books in Great 
Britain for import and for export, an experience which 
is apparently not possessed by your correspondents. I 
may point out to them that if they would undertake to 
bring into Great Britain a Tauchnitz edition of an Eng- 
lish book that was still under the protection of English 
copyright, or a German edition of such copyrighted 
English book, or a Tauchnitz edition of an American book 
that had secured English copyright, or an American 
edition of an American book that had secured English 
copyright, they would find that my statement was abso- 
lutely correct, and that the provisions of the existing 
English statute do give exclusive control, which, as 
pointed out, is an essential factor in a consistent and 
equitable Copyright law. 

In like manner, under the Copyright laws of the other 
states of Europe, the author possesses the absolute con- 
trol of his production, and is placed in a position to 
assign to his selling agents, the publishers, the same con- 
trol for such a territory as he may specify. In no other 
way, in fact, can the author secure for himself what the 
Copyright law proposes he shall secure — namely, the 
fullest possible return for his labor. 

It is in order, also, to correct the statement made 
by the Librarians on another matter, their reference to 
which can only be described as disingenuous. They 
refer to the published price of the American edition of 
the " Cambridge History of English Literature " as 
$2.50 per volume, and state that the English edition is 
issued per volume at 7s. 6d. With the printed cata- 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



395 



logues before them, they must certainly have known 
that the pubUshed price per volume of the English 
edition is 9s., and that the price of 7s. 6d. is in force 
only for purchasers who place advance subscriptions for 
the entire set. They must also have known that while 
the published price per volume of the American issue 
is $2.50, a proportionate reduction is given to subscrib- 
ers for the complete set. They were further aware, of 
course, that the Libraries secure a reduction from the 
published price. Their statement, however, is worded 
for the purpose of giving the impression that the Amer- 
ican price of the book is $2.50 as against an English 
price of 7s. 6d. They also fail to point out that the 
American edition of this work is printed in a more open 
and therefore more expensive typography, and is bound 
in a more substantial and costly form. 

This disingenuous comparison of English and Amer- 
ican prices is, it seems to me, characteristic of the atti- 
tude taken by certain American Librarians in regard to 
American publishing undertakings which are of first 
importance for the literary interests of the community. 
I can but think that the Library Copyright League 
might more accurately be entitled The League of (cer- 
tain) Librarians for the Undermining of Copyright. 

Geo. Haven Putnam. 

Bedford St., Strand, London, June 3, 1909. 



SOME NEEDED TYPOGRAPHICAL REFORMS. 
(To the Editor of The Dial.) 

The academic move of a printers' society toward 
ascertaining some practical methods by which type may 
be made more readable, noted in The Dial of May 
16, is of a certain interest in itself, but more particu- 
larly because of that which it may suggest to those who 
have considered the legibility of the printed page from 
the point of view of all the elements concerned. While 
improvements in type-design may be possible, it is also 
doubtless true that ease and pleasure in reading may 
be greatly increased without altering the present type- 
faces. 

The matter of the design of those letters which are 
now deemed defective has engaged the study of the 
designers attached to the type foundries, and of those 
independent artists who occasionally make type faces, as 
well as the expert printers and critics of printing, for 
many years. The progressive founders are constantly 
experimenting with designs that are offered to overcome 
the objections to some of the Roman letters, and large 
sums of money are annually expended in perfecting 
these suggested designs, cutting matrices, and getting 
expert opinions. There is never a time when there are 
not from one to a dozen of these experimental fonts of 
type, in some stage of making, on the desk of the enter- 
prising foundry manager, out of which there comes no 
more than one per cent of possibilities. Some of the 
letters mentioned by you have been the objects of con- 
tinuous study during many years past, as the a, the e, 
the I, the s, the o, and others. By the way, the dot over 
the i is on a level with the letter I, in all ordinary fonts 
of reading type, as in the note you print; but this same 
dot is a worry to designers, and is often misplaced, be- 
cause its proper optical location is ignored in favor of 
puttmg it in perfect draftsmanship relations with the 
other parts of the letter. The scientists will find it 
difficult to add to the knowledge of the type-designers, 
though the designers will welcome the investigation 
suggested. 



It should be noted that the setting of type by machin- 
ery, and especially the processes by which it is manu- 
factured as it is set, have seriously injured type designs, 
chiefly because of the abolishment of overhanging kerns 
and the unnecessary disregard of the " set " of the 
letters; the one inevitable, and the other the result of 
carelessness or ignorance. The flowing lines of the 
handsome letters of the time before the machines came 
in are missing, and m their place we have an abbreviated 
and prim uprightness of certain letters that takes much 
from the beauty of the type. 

There is something now being done in the direction of 
remedying the objectionable optical qualities of the 
ordinary types used for book printing, by some of the 
better printers. The most notable example of this pro- 
gressive work that has appeared in America is the 
" Geofroy Tory " just from the skilful hands of Mr. 
Bruce Rogers. [This work is spoken of at some length 
in another part of this issue of The Dial. — Edr.] The 
type upon which this beautiful book is printed has been 
re-designed by Mr. Rogers, who took the ordinary Cas- 
lon for his base and has worked out a type which makes 
words that are optical units, rather than collections of 
letters. Many of the letters have been re-designed, and 
the " set " has been very carefully studied and adjusted. 
I very much doubt if any committee of learned pro- 
fessors could, through applying all the methods of cyco- 
logical research, produce or suggest a type better than 
this in the essentials that promote easy reading and eye- 
ease. But the effects produced by Mr. Rogers are not 
possible in commercial book-making, unless we are to 
return to hand-set type ; and it is difficult to understand 
why this is not more commonly done, since there is no 
economy in machine-set type for good books made by 
the good printers, and there is a very great advantage 
possible if hand-set type is intelligently used. 

But granting that type for the ordinary books is 
certain to be machine-set, the book page may easily be 
made so much more closely in accord with the necessities 
of the eyes that it will appear to be the product of the 
very reform for which this society of printers is appeal- 
ing. The optical qualities necessary for comfoi-table 
reading, and the conservation of the powers of the eyes, 
do not largely depend upon the design of the type, but 
upon the method of the use of the type, the length of 
the lines, the proportions of the type-page, the margins, 
the tone of the print, and the general arrangement of the 
book. The paper, and all of the processes of printing, 
have also their influence upon the eyes. If all of these 
considerations are given due attention by the skilled 
printer, there will be little complaint of the design of 
the type face. If in addition the printer would use 
some of the faces of type which were more or less in 
vogue before the machines came in — like the Riverside 
faces for a modern Roman, or the original Caslon for an 
old-style Roman — there would also be handsome book 
pages, which would be nearly exempt from criticism, 
and we should hear less about the necessity of making 
over our letters. And if they are made over, it is 
reasonably certain that the recommended forms will 
not run on the machines ; and the state of our eyes then 
would be the very same as now. 

What book-making needs is knowledge of how to 
use the type faces we have, with the machines, rather 
than an attempt to force a reform that is foredoomed to 
failure. George French. 

New York, June 3, 1909. 



396 



THE DIAL 



[June 16, 



^t itto g0oks. 



CoxcoRD Memories, and Other Pages 
FROM THE Past.* 



Mr. Sanborn, the last of the famous company 
that has made Concord illustrious in the world 
of intellect and ideals, speaks of himself as 
belonging now " to a small and fast-dwindling 
band of men and women who, fifty, sixty and 
seventy years ago, resolved that other persons 
ought to be as free as ourselves." Of this 
liberty-loving band John Brown is naturally 
named as the leader and hero ; and to John 
Brown and his labors and sacrifices in the cause 
of negro emancipation much of the first of 
Mr. Sanborn's two volumes of " Recollections of 
Seventy Years " is devoted, while the second 
volume is filled chiefly with intimate reminis- 
cences of those Concord celebrities about whom 
we are never tired of hearing. In one import- 
ant respect the author has failed to write up to 
his title : he has come to a halt at the end of his 
first forty years, with but little reference to later 
incidents, leaving the reader to hope that the 
remaining thirty (or, more accurately, thirty- 
eight) years may furnish motive and material 
for subsequent volumes. 

In reviewing Mr. Sanborn's book, one cannot 
do better than follow his own example in such 
work. As editor of the Boston " Common- 
wealth " forty-six years ago, and later one of the 
editorial staff of the Springfield " Republican," 
to which journal he still contributes a weekly 
" Boston Literary Letter," he has written 
innumerable book-notices ; and in these he has 
adopted a practice, which he commends, of treat- 
ing the reader to ample quotations, " when space 
and time will allow." For he well recalls, he 
tells us, the keen pleasure he himself found as 
a young man in such quoted passages, while the 
criticism passed unheeded by. First, then, a 
word from his own pen concerning his early 
education. Like many of the best-educated 
men, he was largely self-taught. Speaking of 
the house where he was born in 1831, at Hamp- 
ton Falls, N. H., and of the large room " where 
in winter we dined, and where I studied Latin, 
French, Greek, and German, before I ever 
thought of going to Harvard College," he 
continues : 

" The facilities for so many languages were furnished 
by what remained of the church library ' for the use of 
the ministry,' given by Dr. Langdon, the parish clergy- 

• Recollections of Seventy Years. By F. B. Sanborn of 
Concord. In two volumes. Illustrated. Boston: Richard G. 
Badger. 



man, a retired president of Harvard ; and by the text- 
books which my brother Charles bought for his own 
studies. . . . Dr. Langdon and Parson Abbot, his suc- 
cessor, were the nearest neighbors of my ancestors from 
1780, when Dr. Langdon indignantly withdrew from his 
insulted presidency, until 1827, when Mr. Abbot retired 
to his hill-farm in Windham, twenty miles inland. In 
this half-century (almost) the foundation of a reading 
and studious community was laid in my native township; 
both these clergymen being learned scholars, fond of 
disseminating culture among their parishioners. Both 
founded local libraries — Dr. Langdon of Latin, Greek 
and historical folios, quartos, octavos, and pamphlets; 
and Parson Abbot a < social ' lending library wholly in 
English, and more popular in its quality. Both were 
customarily kept in the Parsonage, and were open to 
me, a schoolmate of the sons of successive parsons, and 
their playmate on the little triangular common where 
the Exeter road, Hampton old-road and Kensington 
crossroad came together." 

Plutarch's " Lives," in Langhorne's trans- 
lation, the boy read before he was eight years 
old, and most of the other few hundred books 
in the Social Library, of which his father was a 
shareholder, had been gone through when, at the 
age of fourteen, he began on the weightier con- 
tents of the other library. Greek gi'ammar, 
indeed, he had already taken up three years 
earlier ; and when he resumed the study of the 
language, more vigorously, at fifteen, it was 
never to drop it again. Mr Sanborn's friends 
can bear witness to his continued pursuit of 
Greek literature and his rare appreciation of 
its beauties. 

After Mr. Sanborn's three years at Harvard, 
where he entered the sophomore class in 1852, 
natural affinity and an opening in the teacher's 
profession drew him to Concord. He begins 
this chapter of his life with some significant 
remarks on the literary inspiration of the town 
as compared with that of Cambridge in his col- 
lege days, and confesses himself more indebted 
to Concord than to Cambridge for his training. 

" With all respect for Harvard College, as it was 
when I was matriculated a student there in 1852, it 
must be said that I owed more to several other persons 
than to any of the college Faculty, and more to Emer- 
son and Theodore Parker than to all the professors and 
tutors together. Yet the undergraduate or academic 
department, though containing less than 400 students, 
was, in my deliberate judgment, as well equipped then 
for producing the results of high scholarship, general 
culture, and practical efficiency in the tasks of American 
life, as it is to-day, with its thousands of students, 
millions of endowment, and ten instructors where there 
were but two in my college days. The professional 
schools are greatly improved, the post-graduate facil- 
ities are multiplied by ten or more, the football, base- 
ball, boat-racing and theatrical departments are far 
more active, productive and expensive ; but the homely, 
solitary, fraternal and personal influences of the small 
college are mostly things of the past. In all its history, 
and with all its advantages, Harvard has usually lagged 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



397 



in the rear of the highest culture; it does so still, amid 
the wealth of its foundations and the multiplicity of its 
opportunities." 

No account of Mr. Sanborn's book would be 
complete without some reference to his intimate 
connection with and unstinted admiration for 
the champion of a free Kansas and the hero 
and martyr of Harper's Ferry. Though only 
for a few years associated in a common cause 
with John Brown, he declares himself better 
acquainted with him than with many men whom 
he has known a lifetime. Hence a few lines of 
characterization from his pen will here be well 
worth while. 

"John Brown, though born in New England, and 
strongly marked with the New England seriousness of 
mood, had spent most of his half-century in new and 
wild regions, intimate with nature, and directing other 
men rather than guided or trained by them. He was 
profound in his thinking, and had formed his opinions 
rather by observation than by reading, though well 
versed in a few books, chief among which was the Bible. 
He was, in truth, a Calvinist Puritan, born a century or 
two after the fashion had changed; but as ready as those 
of Bradford's or Cromwell's time had been to engage in 
any work of the Lord to which he felt himself called." 

Acting as secretary of the Massachusetts 
Kansas Committee, Mr. Sanborn travelled ex- 
tensively in the Middle West, which was then 
the Far West, and he has given in detail a first- 
hand account of the tempestuous beginnings of 
the Kansas commonwealth. The trouble that 
he became involved in with the powers at 
Washington, his attempted arrest, and his flight 
to Canada and other expedients to preserve his 
freedom and to avoid implicating his associates, 
are fully related in his first volume. The hing- 
ing of one momentous event on another in the 
author's life is strikingly shown at several 
points. For instance, the legal aid and advice 
which John A. Andrew gave to his Concord 
friend when the latter was in some apprehension 
of serious trouble from Washington led to Mr. 
Sanborn's helping to nominate Andrew for gov- 
ernor ; and Andrew's election and repeated 
re-election enabled him to offer the secretaryship 
of the newly created Board of State Charities to 
the ex-secretary of the Kansas Committee, an 
office that Mr. Sanborn accepted and in which 
he rendered notable service, although this de- 
partment of his varied activities receives no 
further mention in the present volumes. 

A brief reference to Mr. Sanborn's manner 
of passing the time during his enforced absence 
from home is illuminating. With enough of 
uncertainty and unpleasantness in his situation 
to make many a man walk the streets or smoke 
unnumbered cigars, or perhaps seek spirituous 



rather than spiritual solace, the exile formed the 
acquaintance of a young priest at the Jesuit 
College in Quebec and spent hours reading in 
the library of which the priest was custodian, 
making there, as he tells us, " the reading 
acquaintance of Lucan's ' Pharsalia ' and the 
quaint biographies of Izaak Walton and Mrs. 
Colonel Hutchinson." 

In the pages of the second volume, Emerson 
and Thoreau and EUery Channing (the poet) 
figure most conspicuously. Correcting a false 
impression concerning Emerson as a church- 
goer after he ceased to be a minister, Mr. 
Sanborn writes : 

" I saw in the reported address of President Eliot at 
the Boston Centenary of Emerson, a singular statement : 
' Emerson attended church on Sundays all his life with 
uncommon regularity.' A regularity which kept him 
away from the Sunday services ten years at a time 
would certainly be called ' uncommon,' and such was his 
habit during the first twenty years that I knew him, 
from 1853 to 1873. I had reason to know his practice, 
for a considerable part of that time I often sat in Mrs. 
Emerson's pew, or, if not, at a point where I saw all 
its occupants; and though I may once or twice have 
seen Emerson in it, the occasions must have been very 
few. He afterward took up, in old age, the practice of 
his earlier life, and sat there with his wife and daughter, 
but for many years he was only seen at church rarely." 

We are apt to think of the Concord worthies 
of fifty years ago as wearing halos or laurel 
crowns, or at least as walking in a sort of glorified 
nimbus, in the view of their less exalted fellow- 
townsmen. But this now appears not to have 
been the case, if we may credit the following : 

" It is a singular fact, on which I have much medi- 
tated, that in Concord, for most of the years that the 
great coterie of authors who now reflect credit on the 
little town, were living there and associating with one 
another, the general community had small regard for 
any of them except Emerson. His claims were more 
intelligible to the ordinary citizen than those of Alcott, 
or Thoreau, or Hawthorne, or Channing. All these 
four, when I first lived in Concord, were regarded as 
oddities, and as more or less reprehensible in their 
eccentricity. Alcott's poverty, Hawthorne's unpopular 
politics, Thoreau's unsparing criticism, and Channing's 
caprice increased the dislike which was felt by the 
fancied leaders of the community. It is true they had 
peculiarities that might excuse the disregard felt for 
them by those who had not insight enough for their 
higher traits; but the men and women of education 
should have perceived, as a few of them did, the real 
eminence of the four, each in his own way." 

A rapid sketch of the sturdy Thoreau must 
here find room for insertion. What a contrast 
between his temperament and opinions and those 
of the late lamented John Davidson, for example ! 

" How did Thoreau bear himself in the hourly give- 
and-take of our village life ? To what daily habits did 
his philosophy lead him ? In the first place, he was 
scrupulously honest and diligent — no citizen in the 



398 



THE DIAL 



[June 16, 



plainest way of life was more industrious, or less dis- 
posed to avoid his chosen duties. He even preferred to 
support himself for years by manual labor, because he 
thought this form of industry left him more leisure for 
thought, which, with him, was the real business of life. 
Writing to Horace Greeley in May, 1848, he said that 
for five years past he had lived by the labor of his hands, 
not getting a cent from any other quarter. In this work, 
he estimated, only a month in each year had been used ; 
the rest of the time he had for his own occupations and 
studies, and he thought few men of letters had so much 
leisure. He even railed at those scholars who complain 
that their fate is hard because they get little money, — 
who depend on patrons and starve in garrets, or at last 
go mad and die. Why should not the scholar, he said, if 
he is really wiser than the multitude, do rude work now 
and then ? To such work Thoreau had been brought 
up, and he hardly ceased from it, so long as his physical 
strength lasted." 

In a letter written in 1850 by the young 
woman who afterward became Mr. Sanborn's 
first wife, there occurs this sentence concerning 
" F. S., the young poet," whom the writer had 
just met for the first time : " There was a charm 
about everything he said*, because he has thought 
more wholly for himself than anyone I ever met." 
This known independence of Mr. Sanborn's in 
matters of opinion, marks his book from begin- 
ning to end. There is nothing of second-hand 
or imitation in it ; and this strong character of 
the work, with its flavor of Concord idealism 
and transcendentalism, constitutes its charm. It 
is a noteworthy piece of autobiography, and we 
hope it will be continued and completed. The 
many portraits and other illustrations deserve, 
too, a word of commendation, as does also the 
full index at the end. Percy F. Bicknell. 



Chapters of American Opera.* 



Mr. William Winter, the veteran dramatic 
critic of the New York " Tribune," has recently 
given the public his reminiscences of the Amer- 
ican dramatic stage during the past fifty years. 
Following closely in his footsteps, Mr. Henry E. 
Krehbiel, musical critic of the same paper for 
thirty years, has given the public his reminis- 
cences of opera in New York, beginning with 
the earliest local history of the lyric drama and 
coming down to the present time. The work 
mainly has reference to New York City ; but as 
any review of operatic history there includes in 
large degree operatic history in all our large 
cities, Mr. Krehbiel's book " Chapters of Opera " 

* Chapters of Opera. Being Historical and Critical Obser- 
vations and Records Concerning the Lyric Drama in New York, 
from its earliest days down to the present time. By Henry 
Edward Krehbiel. With over seventy illustrations. New York: 
Henry Holt & Co. 



has a widespread interest and should appeal 
to the general public. In limiting his work to 
opera, Mr. Krehbiel has wisely discriminated. 
He might have covered a wider area of subject ; 
for, as a musician, musical critic, and musical 
writer, he has been closely in touch all these 
years with musical undertakings of every 
kind. Perhaps he recognized that while New 
York City is an operatic centre it is not strictly 
a musical centre. Other cities do not look to it 
for anything but operatic supply. Until that 
city has a permanent orchestra in its own home, 
permanently organized, conducted, housed, and 
pensioned, worthy to rank in the same class 
with the Theodore Thomas or Boston Symphony 
organizations, it can hardly lay claim to being 
the musical centre of the country. At present 
it has only its Philharmonic Society, with a 
three years' permanency under the leadership 
of the excellent Mahler, and guaranteed that 
length of time only through the persevering 
efforts of one lady. New York has never cared 
much for the orchestra which is the essential 
basis of all musical success. It does, however, 
care very much for opera, because it is the 
centre of wealth and fashion, and opera depends 
for its success mainly upon these factors. 

Whatever may have been his motive, Mr. 
Krehbiel has chosen the lyric drama for his 
subject, and he has given the public the most 
complete history of it which has yet been writ- 
ten, beginning with the introduction of Italian 
opera by the Garcias, of English opera by 
Malibran, and of the ballad operas, of which 
" The Beggars' Opera " is a conspicuous exam- 
ple, and closing with the season of 1908 in the 
Metropolitan Opera House. Indeed, the author's 
personal acquaintance with operatic history is 
largely confined to the artists, managers, and 
repertories of that house. 

As in every book which Mr. Krehbiel has 
given the public, he writes with knowledge and 
authority. He has had a wide acquaintance 
with artists, has enjoyed the confidence of man- 
agers, and has had ample official resources to 
draw upon ; so that on the one hand he has pre- 
sented a trustworthy narrative, and on the other 
has embellished it with intelligent criticism and 
pleasant reminiscence. Any history of this 
kind must have its dry spots ; but he amply com- 
pensates for them by the personal note always 
pleasantly sounded, and by a quiet humor which 
illuminates many a page of his text. Thus he 
has made a book which is not only a valuable 
and interesting compendium, but delightful to 
read. Mr Krehbiel's style is usually dignified 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



399 



and earnest, as of one having authority ; but in 
the " Chapters of Opera" he frequently unbends 
and descends from the critical "• Tribune " to 
gossip pleasantly and chat with his readers. 

In a word, Mr. Krehbiel has given us an 
authoritative, exact, and comprehensive history 
of opera in New York, which means a history 
of opera in this country. It is quite profusely 
illustrated with cuts of the earlier opera houses 
and artists and reproductions of excellent pho- 
graphs of artists still upon the stage. 

George P. Upton. 



Shelley the "Enchanted Child."* 



On the death of Francis Thompson, in Novem- 
ber of 1907, the world recognized that it had 
lost a poet great and unusual as to quality, 
though of scant production as to quantity. That 
Mr. Thompson was also a charming prose-writer 
was little known and scarcely mentioned. To 
add this to his preceding honors is left for us, 
the readers of his essay on SheUey, first pub- 
lished last fall in the " Dublin Review," and 
now issued separately as a small volume, with 
an Introduction by the Right Honorable George 
Wyndham. 

The manuscript of this essay was found among 
the poet's papers after his death. It had been 
written nearly twenty years before, but being 
rejected by the editor of the " Dublin Review " 
was thrown aside by its discouraged author to lie 
until found by his literary executor after his 
death. A lapse of twenty years having brought 
about a change of editors to the magazine as well 
as fame to Mr. Thompson, the review for which 
it was originally intended was only too glad to 
print it; to this editor, and to Mr. Wilfrid 
MeyneU, Mr. Thompson's literary executor, are 
we indebted for the recovery from oblivion of a 
manuscript worthy a place among English prose 
masterpieces. 

From this point of view — as a brilliant, 
picturesque, glowing tribute from one poet to 
another and greater one to whom he was not a 
little akin in spirit — praise of the essay can 
hardly be too great. The reviewer need do little 
more than present copious extracts in proof. But 
if it is to be regarded as an addition to Shelley- 
criticism, if Thompson is to be entered in the list 
of leading Shelley critics with Stopford Brooke, 
Garnett, Forman, Symonds, and others, then 
the essay must take much lower rank, must 



* Shelley. By Francis Thompson. 
Scribner's Sons. 



New York : Charles 



be recognized, in fact, as scarcely more than 
superficial. 

Mr. Thompson's introductory assertion, that 
in the present day Shelley has no lineal descend- 
ant in the poetical order, is one not likely to be 
gainsaid ; nor, according to his prediction, are 
we likely to have one, since a poet abound- 
ingly spontaneous, like Shelley, could hardly 
flourish in a self-conscious age like our own. 
An age that is ceasing to produce child-like 
children cannot produce a Shelley. For, both 
as man and as poet, he was essentially a child — 
a word defined by Mr. Thompson in the follow- 
ing glowing fashion : 

" Know you what is to be a child ? It is to be some- 
thing very different from the man of to-day. It is to 
have a spirit jet streaming from the waters of baptism; 
it is to believe in love, to believe in loveliness, to believe 
in belief; it is to be so little that the elves can reach 
to whisper in your ear; it is to turn pumpkins into 
coaches, and mice into horses, lowness into loftiness, 
and nothing into everything, for each child has its fairy 
godmother in its own soul; it is to live in a nutshell and 
to count yourself the king of infinite space; it is 
To see a world in a grain of sand, 
And a heaven in a wild flower, 
Hold infinity in the palm of your hand, 
And eternity in an hour ; 

it is to know not as yet that you are under sentence of 
life, nor petition that it be commuted into death. . . . 
J!o the last, in a degree uncommon among poets, Shelley 
retained the idiosyncrasy of childhood, expanded and 
matured without differentiation. To the last he was 
the enchanted child." 

This doctrine of the " enchanted child " ap- 
plied to Shelley is the main thesis of the essay, 
the one which Mr. Thompson continually reiter- 
ates and to which he returns at every point. Not 
only was Shelley child-like by nature, but this 
disposition was fostered by his early and long 
isolation among his fellows. The persecution 
which overclouded his school-days is hardly ex- 
aggerated in the picture given in " The Revolt 
of Islam." Escaping bodily violence for the 
most part, he was the victim of the most ter- 
rible weapon that boys have against their fellow- 
boy, who is powerless to shun it because, unlike 
the man, he has virtually no privacy. He was 
a little St. Sebastian, sinking under the inces- 
sant flight of shafts which skilfully avoid the 
vital parts. 

The " magnified child " is again shown in his 
fondness for apparently futile amusements, such 
as the sailing of paper-boats. This was not 
childish, not a mindless triviality, though it was 
child-like ; it showed the genuine child's power of 
investing little things with imaginative interest. 

Even as a philosopher, Shelley was a child, 
" firmly expecting spiritual rest from each new 



400 



THE DIAL 



[June 16, 



divinity, though it had found none from the 
divinities antecedent." The reserve and deli- 
cacy with which Mr. Thompson disposes of this 
stumbling-block in the path of many of Shelley's 
devotees are admirable, his conclusion being that 
certain episodes in Shelley's life were due to " no 
mere straying of the sensual appetite, but a 
straying, strange and deplorable, of the spirit "; 
that " he left a woman not because he was tired 
of her arms, but because he was tired of her 
soul." And he pays this beautiful tribute to 
Mary Shelley : " Few poets were so mated be- 
fore, and no poet was so mated afterwards until 
Browning stooped and picked up a fair-coined 
soul that lay rusting in a pool of tears." 

Child-like also, because so irrational, was 
Shelley's unhappiness and discontent with life. 
The pity due to his outward circumstances has 
been strangely exaggerated. Poverty never 
dictated to his pen ; the designs on his bright 
imagination were never etched by the sharp 
fumes of necessity ; as compared with Keats, 
Coleridge, and De Quincey, his was a highly 
.favored lot. 

Coming to Shelley's poetry, we peep over the 
wild mask of revolutionary metaphysics and 
again we see the winsome face of the child. 
" The Cloud," most typically Shelleyan of all 
the poems, is " the child's faculty of make- 
believe raised to the nth power. 

" He is still at play, save only that his play is such as 
manhood stops to watch, and his playthings are those 
which the gods give their children. The universe is his 
box of toys. He dabbles his fingers in the day-fall. 
He is gold-dusty with tumbling amidst the stars. He 
makes bright mischief with the moon. The meteors 
nuzzle their noses in his hand. He teases into growl- 
ing the kennelled thunder, and laughs at the shaking of 
its fiery chain. He dances in and out of the gates of 
heaven; its floor is littered with his broken fancies. He 
runs wild over the fields of ether. He chases the roll- 
ing world. He gets between the feet of the horses of 
the sun. He stands in the lap of patient Nature, and 
twines her loosened tresses after a hundred wilful 
fashions, to see how she will look nicest in his song." 

It was Shelley's childlike quality that assim- 
ilated him to the childlike peoples among whom 
mythologies have their rise. This made him 
in the truest sense a mythological poet, as in 
" Prometheus Unbound " — a veritable poet of 
nature, but not in the Wordsworthian sense. He 
delighted in imagery, not merely as a means of 
expression nor even as adornment, but in imagery 
for its own sake. Shelley is what the Meta- 
physical School of poetry tried to be. 

" The Metaphysical School failed, not because it toyed 
with imagery, but because it toyed with it frostily. To 
sport with the tangles of Nesera's hair may be trivial 
idleness or caressing tenderness, exactly as your relation 



to Neaera is that of heartless gallantry or of love. So 
you may toy with imagery in mere intellectual ingenuity, 
and then you might as well go write acrostics; or you 
may toy with it in raptures and then you may write a 
' Sensitive Plant.' In fact, the Metaphysical poets when 
they went astray cannot be said to have done anything 
so dainty as is implied by toying with imagery. They 
cut it into shapes with a pair of scissors. From all such 
danger Shelley was saved by his passionate spontaneity ; 
no trappings are too splendid for the swift steeds of sun- 
rise. His sword-hilt may be rough with jewels, but it is 
the hilt of an Excalibur. His thoughts scorch through 
all the folds of expression. His cloth of gold bursts at 
the flexures, and shows the naked poetry." 

In estimating individual poems, Mr.Thompson 
calls the " Prometheus Unbound " the " most 
comprehensive storehouse of Shelley's power "; 
" Adonais " " the most perfect of his longer 
efforts "; the lyrics and shorter poems the most 
" absolute virgin-gold of song." 

In conclusion, Mr. Thompson asks the oft- 
propounded question why it is that the poets 
most " skyey " in grain have ever the saddest 
lives. 

" Is it that (by some subtile mystery of analogy) sor- 
row, passion and fantasy are indissolubly connected, like 
water, fire and cloud ; that as from sun and dew are born 
the vapours, so from fire and tears ascend the ' visions 
of aerial joy '; that the harvest waves richest over the 
battlefields of the soul; that the heart, like the earth, 
smells sweetest after rain ; that the spell on which depend 
such necromantic castles is some spirit of pain, charm- 
poisoned at their base ? . . . I^ess tragic in its merely 
temporal aspect than the life of Keats or Coleridge, the 
life of Shelley in its moral aspect is, perhaps, more 
tragical than that of either; his dying seems a myth, a 
figure of his living ; the material shipwreck a figure of 
the immaterial. 

"Enchanted child, born into a world unchildlike; 
spoiled darling of Nature, playmate of her elemental 
daughters ; ' pard-like spirit, beautiful and swift,' laired 
amidst the burning fastnesses of his own fervid mind; 
bold foot along the verges of precipitous dream ; light 
leaper from crag to crag of inaccessible fancies ; tower- 
ing Genius, whose soul rose like a ladder between heaven 
and earth with the angels of song ascending and de- 
scending it ; — he is shrunken into the little vessel of 
death, and sealed with the unshatterable seal of doom, 
and cast down deep below the rolling tides of Time. 
Mighty meat for little guests, when the heart of Shelley 
was laid in the cemetery of Caius Cestius! Beauty, 
music, sweetness, tears — the mouth of the worm has 
fed them all. Into that sacred bridal-gloom of death 
where he holds his nuptials with eternity let not our 
rash speculations follow him." 

One lays down the little volume, stirred and 
thrilled by the magic of words and images not 
unlike Shelley's own. But when emotion has 
cooled, the conviction arises and persists that 
at bottom Mr. Thompson's interpretation is 
lacking in real comprehension of the most essen- 
tial parts of Shelley's nature. The " enchanted 
child " theory is pretty, and true as far as it 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



401 



goes, but it is too limited to satisfy those who 
have known and loved Shelley throughout a life- 
time. Two things in Shelley were as deep in 
him as his poetry : his passion for reforming the 
world, and his essential faith in spiritual things. 
Both of these, Mr. Thompson either ignores or 
implicitly denies. Almost from his birth, 
Shelley's chief characteristics were those of a 
reformer. As a schoolboy at Eton, it was shown 
by his resistance of the atrocious fagging system 
then in full force ; at Oxford, it appeared in the 
form of intellectual revolt against church dogma, 
causing his expulsion at the age of eighteen ; in 
the political field it manifested itself in his papers 
on Catholic Emancipation ; returning from his 
Irish campaign, he struck out bravely for free 
thought and free speech by attacking Lord 
Ellenborough, and then wrote " Queen Mab " 
embodying his knight-errant spirit in verse. 
Especially does it seem inadequate to consider 
" Prometheus Unbound " mainly as a mytholog- 
ical poem. That its real subject is the redemp- 
tion of humanity, personified in the character of 
Prometheus — a redemption accomplished not 
only through the uprooting of evil, but through 
the active force of good — is something which 
seems to have been unsuspected by Mr. 
Thompson. 

Another implication of the essay that cannot 
pass without protest is that Shelley was lacking 
in religious faith. We shall have to grant that 
in Shelley's early writing there are passages that 
seem to justify such an implication, especially 
a notable one in " Queen Mab " (Part VI.), in 
which he calls Religion to account for being the 
guilty cause of all the evils in the world. But 
read the passage carefully and you discover that 
when he says Religion he really means Dogma. 
And even if the passage were much more 
damaging than it is, we shoidd still say that it 
is unfair to lay too much stress on the utterance 
of a boy of eighteen. It is like dwelling upon 
Shakespeare's boyish pranks, such as poaching 
and deer-stealing, and omitting to call attention 
to " Hamlet " or " Lear." We judge a man by 
his man's work, not by his boy efforts. Shelley 
never published" Queen Mab " by his own wish ; 
he printed privately 250 copies, distributing 
them among his friends. After leaving En- 
gland, when he heard it was to be published he 
wrote back and tried to stop it, saying he had 
forgotten what it was but had no doubt it was 
" villainous trash." 

If we want really to get at Shelley's ideas 
of the Unknowable we must take his maturer 
work: "Prometheus," "Adonais," "The Boat 



on the Serchio," "Hellas." What Shelley's 
views were the year before his death we may get 
in two lines of " The Boat on the Serchio : " 
" All rose to do the task He set to each, 
Who shaped us to His end and not our own," 

Throughout the whole of his mature work there 
is unassailable evidence that he believed in the 
existence of a God. Even as early as " Laon 
and Cythna," he says in the " Preface ": " The 
erroneous and degrading idea which men have 
conceived of a Supreme Being is spoken against, 
but not the Supreme Being itself." Just as 
Religion is above all creeds, dogmas, and theol- 
ogies whatsoever, so was Shelley's faith above 
those articles and doctrines that many accept in 
place of Religion. Shelley believed in the 
Eternal Goodness, in the Eternal Truth, and in 
the Eternal Love. In his essay " On Life " he 
says : " What is Love ? Ask him who lives. 
What is Life ? Ask him who adores, What is 
God?" 

For these reasons it must be said that this 
book about Shelley fails to take the same high 
place in criticism that it takes in mastery of 
English prose. Perchance Mr. Thompson's 
attitude as a Roman Catholic writing for a 
Roman Catholic publication kept him from 
recognizing what has been so explicitly expressed 
by an English clergyman (Stopford Brooke) : 
" There are more clergymen and more religious 
laymen than we imagine who trace to the emo- 
tion awakened in them when they were young, 
their wider and better views of God." Without 
such recognition of Shelley's spiritual message 
to his generation and to our own, no criticism 
of him can be considered as really adequate. 
Anna Benneson McMahan. 



A Masterpiece of Typography.* 



The beautifid edition of Bernard's " Geofroy 
Tory " which has been issued by the Riverside 
Press is a book to delight the soul of the biblio- 
phile. All the niceties that enter into the art 
of bookmaking have been attended to with scru- 
pulous care. As many of these are often over- 
looked, even by zealous publishers, it may be 
worth while to mention some of them before 
passing to consideration of the text of the 
volume. 

In the first place, the proportions of the page 
are most grateful to the eye. " Why certain 

• Geofroy Toky, Painter and Engraver : First Royal Printer : 
Reformer of Orthography and Typography under Francois I. An 
account of his life and works, by Auguste Bernard, translated 
by George B. Ives. Boston : The Riverside Press. 



402 



THE DIAL 



[June 16, 



proportional relations should be harmonic, and 
others not, is a question that has never been 
satisfactorily answered, though from times of 
remote antiquity it has been the subject of philo- 
sophic inquiry. Efforts to reduce the matter 
to a mathematical formula, whether expressed 
in terms of numerical ratios of the Pythagorean 
scale, or based upon the division of quantities 
by the so-called golden section, or upon the 
theory of musical chords, or of the consonance 
of notes sounded in sequence, cannot be regarded 
as entirely satisfactory. Nevertheless the sensi- 
tive eye recognizes a more subtle harmony in 
some proportions than in others. The page of the 
volume before us is of a size — imperial octavo — 
that has had the approval of many generations 
of book-lovers. Not only are its proportions 
pleasant to contemplate, but so also are those of 
the type-page, which is designed and placed in 
accord with the requirements of the most exact- 
ing taste, the margins — a most important feature 
in a well-printed book — progressively increas- 
ing from back to head, fore-edge, and tail, the 
outer margin being twice the width of the inner, 
the lower somewhat more than twice that of the 
upper. Moreover, the diagonal of the type-page 
coincides with that of the paper from the back at 
the top to the fore-edge at the bottom ; a refine- 
ment that means much more than is commonly 
apprehended, and is significant of the pains 
bestowed upon every detail of the volume. 

Typographically, the book is of unusual dis- 
tinction. It is printed upon English hand-made 
paper of fine quality and agreeable texture, upon 
which both the letter-press and the illustrations 
appear to the best advantage. The press-work 
leaves nothing to be desired. The register is 
perfect, the impression uniform throughout, the 
color everywhere even and f lUl-toned. The type, 
a revised Caslon designed by Mr. Bruce Rogers 
and used for the first time in this work, is of 
exceptional beauty. By reintroducing some of 
the slight irregularities of the Renaissance types 
of the sixteenth century, the smug mechanical 
appearance of most modern faces has been suc- 
cessfully avoided without sacrifice of legibility. 
This is no small accomplishment. Mr. Rogers 
is to be congratulated upon having worked out 
a type of pronounced character, strong in its 
effect when seen as a page, yet free from un- 
pleasant innovations and bizarre features save 
only the diagonal hyphen. This should be 
replaced in the font by one of different design. 
It is open to the objections that by carrying the 
eye off at an angle it interferes with easy read- 
ing, and that it is over-emphasized and conse- 



quently disturbing, especially when used at the 
end of a line. 

A word needs to be said for the admirable 
paragraphing and general typographical ar- 
rangement, and in particular for the even 
spacing. This may seem a small matter to the 
uninitiated, but it is in such things that the 
difference between ordinary and first-rate work- 
manship lies ; and the amount of time, trouble, 
and thought necessary to secure the best resiUts 
are seldom appreciated by those who are without 
practical experience in the supervision of fine 
printing. The initiate, however, soon discovers 
that the largely enhanced cost of the better work 
is weU earned. 

Mr. Bernard's monograph, which has not 
heretofore appeared in an English translation, 
was published originally in 1857, and was reis- 
sued in a revised and considerably enlarged form 
in 1865. It is a monument of accurate scholar- 
ship and such minute and painstaking research 
as amply to justify Mr. Alfred W. Pollard's 
statement that in its second edition it " is one of 
the few books of which it can be said that they 
are so well done that no one has any excuse for 
going over the ground again." His desire that 
" some French publisher would bring out a 
new edition worthily illustrated, for in 1865 
the modern processes of illustration were not 
invented," finds substantial if not precisely 
literal fulfilment in the present volume. 

Tory's illustrated books are so rare, and, with 
the exception of the " Royal Alphabet ' which 
he designed for Robert Estienne, his engravings 
have been so seldom reproduced, that his name 
is not well known outside the circle of those 
interested in the history of engraving and typog- 
raphy. Yet he occupies a distinguished place in 
that history, and was in his day a man highly 
respected and of marked influence in more than 
one direction. Born in Bourges about 1480, 
of obscure middle-class parents, he managed in 
some way, probably by the aid of a patron, to 
study at the University of his native town, and 
then, early in the sixteenth century, to journey 
to Italy to finish his education in Rome and 
Bologna. Returning to France about 1504, 
he began his career by editing editions of the 
works of a number of Latin authors. Prob- 
ably through the influence of his friend Philiberfc 
Babou, at that time valet de chambre to the 
king, he was appointed regent, otherwise pro- 
fessor of philosophy, at the CoUege of Plessis. 
Later he filled similar chairs at the CoUege 
Coqueret and the College of Bourgogne. While 
thus engaged in teaching he set about learning 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



403 



drawing and engraving, became deeply inter- 
ested in typography, and about 1516 gave up 
his professorship to make a second visit to Italy, 
this time to study classic and renaissance forms 
in preparation for what was to be his life work. 

For a time after his return to Paris, about 
1518, Tory seems to have earned his living by 
painting miniatures, but he soon devoted his 
entire attention to engraving on wood, at first 
working for Simon de Colines and other printers. 
By 1525 he had become an engraver and book- 
seller on his own account. The next year he 
became a printer also ; and in 1531 he was 
appointed Printer Royal to Fran9ois I., being 
the first incumbent of that office which he held 
until his death in 1533. In this brief period 
Tory effected an almost complete revolution in 
design for book ornamentation, supplanting the 
mediaeval styles then in vogue by ornaments 
based upon the work of the artists of the Italian 
Renaissance. If to our eyes his decorative de- 
signs appear somewhat thin, dry, and common- 
place, it should be borne in mind that at the 
time he began to work the beautiful embellish- 
ments of the French Horae, printed in the last 
quarter of the fifteenth century, were things 
of the past, and that in their stead most book 
illustrations were of a sort chiefly of German 
inception, marked in general more by vigor than 
by refinement or true artistic feeling. 

To this decadent art Tory's forms were in 
strong contrast. They were also well suited 
to their purpose and fitted excellently with the 
types then in use. There is reason to believe 
that he designed and engraved types as well 
as wood- cuts ; at least M. Bernard makes out a 
strong case for that contention. Though Tory's 
engravings found a place in most of the illus- 
trated books of any importance printed in Paris 
during the second, third, and fourth decades of 
the sixteenth century, his most celebrated works 
were the illustrations and borders designed and 
engraved by him for his " Books of Hours." He 
is also famous as the author, illustrator, and 
publisher of a book entitled " Champ Fleury," 
an essay on the Latin alphabet, which he issued 
in 1529. The purpose of this curious work was 
threefold ; in it he advocated the use of Roman 
letters in place of Gothic, urged the superiority 
of the French language, and made several rec- 
ommendations for the reformation of its orthog- 
raphy, most of which — as the use of the 
apostrophe in place of an elided letter, and of 
the cedilla to designate the soft c — were gen- 
erally adopted. 

Fascinated by the theories of Diirer on the 



proportions of the human body, Tory included 
in this book a fantastic explanation of the 
derivation of the Latin letters from the goddess 
lo, claiming that they are all formed of I and O. 
This theory, rather than " the number of points 
and turns of the compass that each one requires," 
was probably all that he held for " his own," 
though M. Bernard prefers to think otherwise. 
Certain it is that Tory was neither the inventor 
of the Latin letters nor the one who perfected 
their proportions. Nor does the honor belong 
to Simon Haieneuve, the Mans architect whose 
delineation of them Tory extols. In Diirer's 
" Underweysung der Messung," published in 
Niiremberg in 1525, the letters are given almost 
as in "Champ Fleury," the chief differences 
being in the O, the axis of which the German 
master slants at an angle of 45 degrees, while 
Tory gives it only a slight inclination from the 
vertical ; the G, of which the finish is given a 
height about half-way between Diirers two 
variants ; and the K in which he follows Diirer's 
second and less favored drawing. But Diirer, 
Sigismundi de Fantis, author of the " Theorica 
et practica . . . de modo Scribendi " (Venice 
1514), and Fra Luca Paciola, author of the 
" Divina Proportione" (Venice 1509 ; the first 
printed book in which the alphabet is worked 
out geometrically), also commented upon by 
Tory, were alike indebted to the Venetian master 
Leonardo da Vinci. It speaks well for Tory's 
perception of beauty of form that he should have 
followed Leonardo so closely. How faithfully 
he did this is shown by a manuscript analysis 
of the alphabet in the possession of Mr. Coella 
L. Ricketts of Chicago, done upon paper which 
is known to have been used only from 1477 to 
1483, and which is probably the handiwork of 
Leonardo himself. This manuscript, it may 
be said in passing, Mr. Ricketts contemplates 
publishing in facsimile. 

The identification of Tory's designs is not free 
from difficulty. Many known to be his are 
signed with the double cross of Lorraine ; but 
as this was used upon engravings which were not 
published until some years after his death, 
considerable difference of opinion exists as to 
whether it may be regarded as the mark of 
Tory's workshop or that of the school of design 
of which he was the originator. M. Bernard 
holds to the former view, although he thinks 
most of the works so signed were from Tory's 
own hand. However, in the elaborate icon- 
ography which forms more than half of his 
monograph, he gives a list of later engravings up- 
on which the cross appears. These he considers 



404 



THE DIAL 



[June 16, 



as emanating from Tory's shop, which was con- 
tinued after 1533, at first by his widow, and 
later by Olivier Mallard. But M. Henri Bou- 
chot found the same signature used upon the 
engravings in " L'Entree du Roi a Paris " in 
1549, — a book not mentioned by M. Bernard, — 
and quite properly says that it " cannot be taken 
as a posthumous work of Tory, for these engrav- 
ings had their origin at a particular date." 

Possibly bearing upon this question is another 
book not included in M. Bernard's list — the 
" Sapphicae Horae " of Petrus Busseronus, pub- 
lished at Lyons by Jac. Huguetan, in 1538. 
This little volume, of which a copy, formerly in 
the collection of M. Yemeniz, and later in that 
of Mr. Henry Probasco, is now in the Newberry 
Library of Chicago, contains ten unsigned en- 
gravings, copied from Tory's Hours of 1524, 
but re-drawn to a different scale and changed in 
various particulars though retaining the general 
characteristics of Tory's style. From these it 
would appear that Tory was both copied and 
imitated, a distinction that has always come to 
artists of originating force. 

Students would have welcomed a larger num- 
ber of reproductions of Tory's designs than are 
given in the Riverside edition of M. Bernard's 
book, amply as it is illustrated. They would 
have appreciated also a specimen of Tory's type, 
shown in relation to the borders used by him. 
Something may be said both for and against the 
method of reproduction employed. " The de- 
signs," we are told, " were all re-drawn with 
the greatest care over photographs of the orig- 
inals, and from these drawings photo-engravings 
made, which were afterward perfected by hand 
when the forms were on the press." The result- 
ant gain in typographical effect is incontestable, 
and Mr. Rogers's drawings are entitled to very 
high praise. Nevertheless, the captious critic 
might object that for purposes of study photo- 
engravings direct from the originals have certain 
advantages, and that re-drawing involves not 
merely " minor divergences of line " but also 
difference in quality. Lines and dots drawn 
with a pen, or with Chinese white applied with 
a brush upon a black ground, as in the case of 
the floriated initials so wonderfully reproduced 
by Mr. Rogers, can never be quite the same as 
though made with a graver. On the other 
hand, mechanical reproduction of such engrav- 
ings as Tory's carries with it almost inevitably 
the perpetuation of defects due to the poor 
press- work of the sixteenth-century printers. 
And for exhaustive study one should always 
seek out the originals, and not rely upon any 



reproductions however excellent they may be. 
The bibliophile will prefer Mr. Rogers's crisp 
and sparkling renderings, and will linger caress- 
ingly over the pages of this beautiful volume, 
which is creditable in the highest degree to the 
author, the translator, the printer, and the pub- 
lisher. Frederick W. Gookin. 



The Individuality of Wai>t Whitman.* 



An interest deeper than usual accompanies 
the appearance of a new volume in the English 
Men of Letters Series — the volume on Walt 
Whitman, by George R. Carpenter — an inter- 
est colored by sorrowful regret as the announce- 
ment of its author's death follows close upon the 
publication of the book. The loss to American 
scholarship in the death of this conscientious and 
broad-minded literary student is emphasized as 
one turns the pages of his admirable essay. 

The life of the poet is covered with a fine 
perception of illuminating details, the effect of 
which is a portraiture rather more distinct in 
outline than even that given us by Mr. Perry in 
his valuable study of Whitman published three 
years ago. It leaves Whitman somehow a more 
tangible personality and a bigger man. This is 
perhaps the chief service of Professor Carpen- 
ter's biography. It is with the individuality of 
Walt Whitman that he is fundamentally con- 
cerned ; the interpretation of the message is sub- 
ordinate. The man was larger than the poet. 

Stress is therefore laid upon the peculiar 
influences of the Long Island environment on 
Whitman's youth, sensitive and impressionable 
as it was ; upon his early love of solitude and 
his life-long habit of meditation ; his custom of 
reading in every chance interval — as at the 
noon hour at the printing-office, " generally 
prose, and invariably s6rious matter "; his even- 
ing excursions, his holidays alone on the sea- 
shore; his preferred association with ferry-hands, 
stage-drivers, and car-men ; for all these experi- 
ences entered into him and contributed to the 
enrichment of his emotional and intellectual life. 
He was not a scholar nor a bookman. " His pas- 
sion was for the outer world, the tangible world." 
" He craved the knowledge of the whole ; he was 
possessed by the passion for humanity." 

An interesting comparison is thus made by 
the biographer : 

" This world of the majority, on which ours is only 
tangential, and of which we are so ignorant, and par- 
ticularly the world of the city laborer, Whitman knew 

*Walt Whitman. By George Rice Carpenter. "English 
Men of Letters Series." New York : The Macmillan Co. 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



405 



well, and he was the only American man of letters who 
was thoroughly familiar with it. To Longfellow and 
Lowell and Holmes it was terra incognita, for they had 
travelled little in their own country, and at home had 
never passed the social boundaries of their class. Emer- 
son had travelled much, but always as a philosopher, to 
a large degree unconscious of and unsympathetic with 
the life of the masses. Whittier alone had something of 
the same sympathy with the people of the under or 
basic world, though it was not well developed. He 
knew the New England country folk, but mainly as 
the country-bred journalist and politician would know 
them; he would have dragged them after him into the 
upper world of enlightenment; he could not have con- 
ceived of abandoning himself completely to their illit- 
eracy, to their crude religious feeling, or entire lack of 
it, to their preoccupation with the physical toil and 
physical joy of life." 

And so the biographer brings us to Whitman's 
own expression of his purpose, — "A feeling or 
ambition to articulate and faithfully express in 
literary or poetic form, and imcompromisingly, 
my own physical, emotional, moral, intellectual, 
and aesthetic Personality, in the midst of, and 
tallying, the momentous spirit and facts of its 
immediate days, and of current America — and 
to exploit that Personality, identified with place 
and date, in a far more candid and comprehen- 
sive sense than any hitherto poem or book." 
But Whitman's democracy is not regarded by 
Professor Carpenter as the final essential fea- 
ture in his interpretation . His " crowning charac- 
teristic was that his poetry of democracy sprang, 
not from well-defined intellectual concepts, but 
from an extraordinary mood, from an intense and 
peculiar emotion." With all his commonness 
and practicality. Whitman was a mystic. 

The chapters on " Comradeship " and " Old 
Age " are naturally full of interesting material — 
nothing that is essentially new, but sympathetic 
and vivid to the end. The tone of the narrative 
is brighter and more mellow than that of some 
that we have read. In 1885, the ever-generous 
circle of Whitman's Camden friends planned a 
fund to buy " the good gray poet " an easy- 
riding buggy and a good horse. With the assist- 
ance of the older men of letters throughout the 
country, the gift was made. 

" Thenceforward he drove regularly and frequently — 
and, it must be added, often at a speed somewhat un- 
becoming his years, having exchanged the safe beast 
presented to him for one of a livelier gait." 

Mr. Carpenter has given us a genuine biog- 
raphy, a thoroughly readable and vivacious life 
of one of the most picturesque in the group of 
our American writers, and one whose signifi- 
cance in the history of American literature is 
more and more clearly recognized with the pass- 
ing years. ^^ E^ Simonds. 



Briefs on New Books. 



During the present Exposition year 
^'^SS:^' P"^li« attention is likely to be drawn 

largely toward the Northwest, and 
the history of the making of the states in that region 
will be studied with unusual interest. A timely 
volume on " The History of the State of Washing- 
ton " (Macmillan) appears from the pen of Professor 
Edmond S. Meany of the University of Washington. 
The work is a distinct advance on the usual state 
history, being well-balanced, well-written, and well- 
printed. The first period treated is that of Dis- 
covery, which extends from prehistoric times to the 
visits of the " Columbia," the " Lady Washington," 
and the " Boston," to the Northwest coast. An 
interesting reminder of the fate of the latter vessel, 
the massacre of most of her crew and the enslave- 
ment of the remainder, was noticed by the author 
during a personal visit to the Chinook Indians, who 
still use the term " Boston-Man " as a synonym for 
" American." The period of Exploration covers 
the Astor project and the long contest with England 
for the fur-trade and the possession of the territory. 
The author considers the United States extremely 
fortunate in securing the land to the north of the 
Columbia River. The claim as far north as 54° 
40' he pronounces a " piece of pure Yankee bluster." 
The history of territorial days is made up largely of 
Indian wars and the influx of people after the dis- 
covery of gold on the Pacific slope. The early 
period of statehood is described as marked by an 
extravagance of public expenditure, which was, how- 
ever, corrected imder later administrations. The 
last chapter is the most novel in the volume, being 
a description of the results of Federal activity in the 
state in the shape of surveys, postal and customs 
service, judiciary, irrigation, etc. The book as a 
whole is deserving a permanent place in the history 
of the states of the Union. 

Points for '^^^ librarian's painful particularity, 

workerg in or painstaking particularity, as he 

the library. niight prefer to express it, is not the 

least of those peculiar attributes that combine to 
make him the useful and talented and accurately 
informed person we all know him to be. Vagueness 
and practical library efficiency do not go together. 
That a librarian's duties tend to develop pedantry 
and f ussiness and a disposition to magnify trifles — 
to lose sight of wholes in the multiplicity of their 
parts, to let the spirit perish while the letter exu- 
berates — is one of those things that cannot very 
well be helped. Like writer's cramp and clergyman's 
sore throat, this tendency is one of the penalties, or 
risks, of the profession. But there are librarians, 
as there are writers and clergymen, who escape the 
peculiar danger of their calling. To reflections like 
these one may not unnaturally be moved by a course 
of study in the literature of library economy. An 
admirable book of its kind, entitled simply " Library 
Economics," and composed of thirty-seven sections 



406 



THE DIAL 



[June 16, 



written by nearly as many different library workers 
of England, has just been issued by the publishers 
of " The Library World." The language is clear, 
the instruction is definite, the diagrams and other 
illustrations are all that one could wish ; but even 
the veriest beginner in library science might pardon- 
ably resent being told " How to cut the leaves of a 
book " — a topic that has a page all to itself. So 
apparently simple a process, too, as the gumming of 
labels on books receives two and one-quarter pages, 
including a diagi-am. Occasionally the American 
reader meets with a topic of rather local than world- 
wide interest. " Obliteration of Betting News " in 
daily papers, as undesirable matter likely to attract 
imdesirable readers, is fortunately not a live topic 
with many of us. In the same section, by the way, 
near the bottom of the page, is to be noted one of 
the very few errors (one of grammar) that the book 
contains. Another current work of importance on 
library management is Mr. John Cotton Dana's 
"Modern American Library Economy as Illustrated 
by the Newark (N. J.) Free Public Library," one 
part of which has already received our notice. Part 
v.. Section 2, a " Course of Study for Normal School 
Pupils on the Use of a Library," now appears out of 
its proper order for reasons explained in a preface. 
Here, too, as in the English work, some very ele- 
mentary matters are honored with a serious and cir- 
cumstantial treatment. It would be unkind to call 
this expatiation on the commonplace by the name 
of " padding "; it may be useful and necessary. A 
.36-page glossary of terms and phrases that concludes 
the English book is certainly replete with words 
whose absence would not have been seriously felt, — 
e. ^., concordance, diagram, diary, manual, map, 
sobriquet. In the same volume a list of one hundred 
book-collectors seems not very intimately connected 
with library economy. Better redundancy than de- 
fect, however, in a work of this kind. 

Beginnings There is charm and romance in a fine 

and romance , . j ii_ • t> pc 

of American Snip, and there IS, as Byron anirms, 

railroads. music in the roar of the sea. There 

is also to many minds — despite Ruskin's opinion to 

the contrary — poetic appeal in the railway's steel 

bands that gridiron the dry land and unite cities, 

states, and nations ; and there is a thrill in the roar 

of the splendidly equipped express train. The 

romance of early railroading, together with certain 

related incidents and experiences that partake of the 

curious and amusing rather than of the romantic, 

has furnished Mr. Charles Frederick Carter with a 

fruitful theme for his book, " When Railroads were 

New" (Holt). From the building of the Baltimore 

and Ohio to the completion of the Canadian Pacific, 

the progress of the American railroad, with brief 

glances at England's first steps in the same form of 

enterprise, is agreeably and carefully sketched, with 

enough of anecdote and graphic illustration to enliven 

the story. As the author remarks in his preface, 

'' Concerning certain aspects of the railroad, such as 

its finance, both high and ordinary, its construction 



and operation from a technical viewpoint, its moral 
turpitude and its predilection for manslaughter, 
whole libraries have been published." But matters 
of more general interest in the railroad's history, 
especially in its very early history, have been some- 
what neglected ; and it is these less-known facts that 
the author has brought together in an attractive set- 
ting, having first published much of his material in 
" The Railroad Man's Magazine." A little more 
attention to literary finish would not have hurt the 
book. Such slips as " laid down " for " lay down," 
and " like " in the sense of " as," may not offend 
nine readers out of ten ; but the tenth cannot over- 
come a certain predilection, inherited or acquired, 
for grammatically correct English. 

France from ^^r an adequate comprehension of 
Waterloo to the the great problems agitating French 
Third Hepiiblic. pu^jiig opinion — the relations of 
Church and State, the transformation of the system 
of taxation, the encroachment of a militant syndi- 
calism — clear conceptions of the development of 
France are more than ever necessary. As an aid 
in reaching these, two books offer themselves, "The 
Third Republic" (Lippincott), written by Mr. 
Frederick Lawton, and "France since Waterloo" 
(Scribner), by Mr. W. Grinton Berry. Mr. Lawton 
has been a resident in France for twenty years, so 
that his book has the flavor of personal memoirs, 
although his own personality is discreetly kept out 
of sight. He gives a running chronicle of the repub- 
lic by presidencies down to the days of Fallieres and 
Clemenceau, interspersing anecdotes and comments 
after the manner of a conversationalist. The style 
is occasionally familiar to say the least ; as when he 
says that Rochefort's Intransigeant "in its latest 
phase seems to serve as a sort of satyric pick-me-up 
giving cabby an appetite for lunch." There are 
special chapters on the tendencies of literature and 
art, on education, Paris, and the " Mutualist Move- 
ment." Mr. Lawton thinks that the "vast majority 
of the nation have abandoned the Christian faith," 
yet among these the "standard of morality is as 
high, if not higher, than among their Catholic fellow- 
countrymen." Mr. Berry's volume is not a chronicle, 
but a series of interpretations, a characterization of 
successive regimes and tendencies, evidently the 
result of wide reading and reflection. The judg- 
ments are in general sound, although the chapter 
on the " Church and the Republic " does not seem 
free from "anti-clerical" prejudice. The brief 
description of the Church under the old rSgime 
exaggerates the aristocratic vices of the clergy. 
There is also a lack of exact statement in tracing 
the beginnings of the present difficulties in the first 
Revolution. 

A famous foe ^^^^ fndrew Lang, in his biography 
of the Scotch of Sir George Mackenzie ( Long- 
Covenanters. mans), turns his attention to the 
religious problems of the Stuart Restoration in 
Scotland. Sir George was king's advocate from 
1677 to 1688, when the Revolution terminated his 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



407 



career ; and as such he found it his duty to prose- 
cute stubborn Presbyterians who resisted the intro- 
duction of episcopacy to the point of rebellion. So 
effective were his efforts in this direction, that in 
the tradition of the Covenanters he is known as 
" Bloody " Mackenzie. In the opinion of Mr. Lang, 
the epithet was undeserved. By nature Sir George 
was tolerant and liberal ; but such was the situation 
in Scotland during his time that a rational temper 
could not be maintained ; there was no place for the 
philosopher — men had to become zealots either for 
the kirk or for the prerogative. Naturally the great 
lawyer chose the latter alternative. Mr. Lang's biog- 
raphy is neither an apology nor an effort at rehabil- 
itation; it is a sober attempt to explain a situation 
that drove good Scotchmen to extremes. " Mack- 
enzie regarded right reason as his ' one talent,' and 
reason assured him, or so he persuaded himself, that 
the Government must choose between persecution or 
civil war. I am not sure that he was mistaken." 
The work is therefore a study of problems rather 
than of a career ; the private life of the advocate is 
almost wholly lost sight of ; it is not so much the 
brilliant lawyer that attracts and impresses the 
reader as the great causes that he pleads or fights 
for. On the whole, the discussion is sane and con- 
vincing, far more calm and judicious in tone than 
the author's vigorous English usually permits. The 
work is provided with several portraits of Sir George, 
and of his famous contemporary, James Graham of 
Claverhouse. 

That discerning student of the side- 
supel^mon. lights of human heritage. Professor 

Frazer, makes a plea for the value of 
superstition, under the Miltonian title, " Psyche's 
Task" (Macmillan). Remembering that the stages 
of human evolution require beliefs fitted to the cul- 
ture of the period and the people, it becomes no 
paradox that in primitive times primitive methods 
of guiding action were the effective ones. Professor 
Frazer defends a fourfold thesis : that superstition 
by attaching itself to the sacredness of the ruler 
(surviving as the divine right of kings and the heal- 
ing power of the king's touch) has contributed to the 
establishment of civil order ; that the fear of magic 
consequence concretely resulting in the taboo, 
brought about a respect for private property ; that 
superstitious beliefs in regard to the effect of irreg- 
ular sexual relations upon the crops and the public 
welfare has been a means of enforcing personal 
morality ; and that the fear of the vengeance of 
ghosts has acted to make more secure the sanctity 
of huinan life. To get right things done, even for 
wrong reasons, was more important for primitive 
society than to develop right reasons for custom and 
conduct. Thus, superstition, with all its evils in 
higher cultures, is yet a light, " a dim and wavering 
light, which, if it has lured many a mariner on the 
breakers, has yet guided some wanderers on life's 
troubled sea into a haven of rest and peace. Once 
the harbour lights are passed and the ship is in port. 



it matters little whether the pilot steered by a Jack- 
o'-lantern or by the stars." In the wider vision lies 
the deeper truth ; and though we need be no less 
rigidly scientific in loyalty to our logic, we shall be 
the more appreciative of the devious ways of human 
progress for the comprehension of Professor Frazer's 
thesis. 

A pioneer and ^he Rev. Charles W. Gordon, better 
missionary in the known in literature as " Ralph Con- 
far Northwest, nor," tums aside from novel-writing 
long enough to relate the life of his fellow-minister 
in the Presbyterian Church of Canada, Dr. James 
Robertson, a native of Scotland, who, after pastoral 
labors of twelve years in the land of his adoption, 
became Missionary Superintendent of the Northwest 
Territory, where he did noble service for twenty-one 
years in planting the church in what was then little 
better than a wilderness. Seven years and more 
have passed since his death, but his memory is and 
long will be warmly cherished by those who knew 
him. No better qualified biographer of the man 
could have been found than the author whose books 
have, as he himself declares, been in no small meas- 
ure inspired by this vigorous and resourceful pioneer 
in the cause of religion. The true story of this 
" sky pilot " has much of the charm of romance, and 
is at the same time a bracing and invigorating record 
of worthy achievement. A little more revision of 
the author's manuscript might have been not inad- 
visable. So good a Latin scholar as James Robertson 
is represented to have been both by his biographer 
and by his Scotch schoolmaster, Alexander Mc- 
Naughton, would have been grieved to encounter 
(on page 77) so glaring a solecism as tellus ignotum. 
The lack of index is another indication of undue 
haste in getting the book published. There are sev- 
eral excellent and interesting portraits and other 
illustrations, and the book as a whole appeals 
strongly to the reader. 

The evolution ^he latest work upon the orchestra, 
of our modern " The Evolution of Modern Orches- 
orchestration. tration," is from the pen of Louis 
AdolpheCoerne, a musical writerof note, and deserves 
the consideration of musical students. The author 
has not intended to present a technical treatise on 
instrumentation or an analysis of the orchestra, but 
rather seeks to trace the evolution both of orchestra 
and of orchestration. In treating his subject, Dr. 
Coerne reverts to the very beginnings of instrumentr 
ation and instruments, and shows how they have 
been developed ; traces their evolution through the 
classic era at the hands of Bach, Handel, Gluck, 
Haydn, Mozart, Beethoven, and their contempo- 
raries ; then takes the reader through the period of 
romanticism and the classical romanticists ; and 
closes by tracing the new movement in various coun- 
tries. An appendix, consisting of musical illustra- 
tions, from the scores of various composers from 
Monteverde to Richard Strauss, adds interest to the 
work by making the evolution more clear to the 



408 



THE DIAL 



[June 16, 



reader. The book may not have been intended as 
a text-book, but its arrangement and summaries 
would easily adapt it for teachers* uses. It is not a 
treatise in any sense, but a history of the orchestra, 
and from this point of view is imique. 

Thefairett " To know the history of the Acrop- 

cityofthe olis is to know not only the back- 

^gean Sea. ground of the history of Athens, it is 
to know also the beauty-loving spirit and the brilliant 
genius of the people who dwelt in the city nobly built 
on the ^gean shore." This concluding sentence 
offers a fair index of the general spirit manifested 
by Professor M. L. D'Ooge in his work on " The 
Acropolis of Athens " (MacmiUan). It should be 
noted, however, that the words come after many long 
chapters of painstaking presentation of details, and 
that the book is not intended primarily for entertain- 
ment. The author, who combines genuine enthu- 
siasm for his subject with scholarly patience, has 
gathered up the results of the work of many active 
investigators of divers nations who have been 
attracted by the home of Athena, and has given 
them to us with his own thoughtful conclusions on 
many debatable points. The illustrations are laud- 
ably abundant, and on the whole satisfactory, 
although some of them would be more effective if 
the paper were better. The volume may be com- 
mended to the close reader of history, the exception- 
ally serious traveller, and the lover of things Grecian 
in general. 



BRIEFER MENTION. 



That indefatigable student and admirer of the Dutch 
both at home and on the continent, William Elliot 
Griffis, has put into attractive form "The Story of 
New Netherland: the Dutch in America" (Houghton). 
The writer has dressed the historical facts of his story, 
rather trivial and uninteresting many of them, in a 
readable style, and he has given much valuable and inter- 
esting information on the social life in New Netherland. 
Those who have their ideas of the New York Dutch and 
New York history from Diedrich Knickerbocker should 
as a matter of justice read this book. They will find 
that the Dutchmen were not the ridiculous creatures of 
Washington Irving's caricature, but sturdy, independ- 
ent, broad-minded men, worthy to rank high among the 
founders of our country. 

Mr. Jethro Bithell, of the University of Manchester, 
informs us that he is engaged upon a history of " the 
minnesong, as compared with the old lyrical poetry of 
Provence, Portugal, and Italy." As a forerunner of 
this work, which may be expected next year, he now 
puts forth « The Minnesingers " (Longmans), being a 
volume of translations. This volume is, of course, 
independent of the one to come, for, as the translator 
justly observes of its contents, " if they are poems, they 
should need no commentary: that they are poems in 
the original, is certain." We take satisfaction in saying 
that they are also poems in their English dress, poems 
to be enjoyed for themselves, with no arriere-pensee of 
a philological nature. Mr. Bithell has been singularly 
successful in his management of both rhymes and 



rhythms, and has taken few liberties at that. He 
speaks of his " spade-work " and his " plaster-cast " 
method, but this is a note of quite uncalled-for modesty. 
This volume is a real enrichment of the literature of 
poetic translation. 

Messrs. Thomas Y. Crowell & Co. are the American 
publishers of Mr. W. L. Courtney's " The Literary Man's 
Bible " in its new (fourth) edition. The work includes 
a group of brief introductory essays, followed by the text 
of the greater part of the books of the Old Testament, 
their contents classified, and printed in readable form. 
The authorized version is used, as a matter of course. 
Such a book as this does inestimable service to the cause 
of religion, and it is pleasant to know that it is in the 
continuous demand that its successive editions would 
seem to indicate. 

Miss Maude M. Frank, a teacher in one of the New 
York City High Schools, has prepared a volume of 
" Constructive Exercises in English " (Longmans), which 
is an original attempt to teach variety of diction, clear 
paragraphing, and some skill in the various forms of 
literary expression. Miss Frank's idea seems to be: 
Give the pupil a start at first, and in time he will be able 
to make a way for himself. Accordingly, theory is 
minimized, and there are plenty of constructive exercises 
intended to arouse the pupil's interest and stimulate his 
ideas, and far more likely to do so than the unapproach- 
able rules with which many rhetorics abound. 

Miss Anna Morgan, a well-known teacher of Dra- 
matic Expression in Chicago, is the author of two com- 
panion volumes, which are published in attractive 
bindings by Messrs. A. C. McClurg & Co. " The Art 
of Speech and Deportment " explains, generally in 
question and answer style, such matters as grace of 
carriage, the correct use of the voice, and platform man- 
ners, corrects many erroi-s of pronunciation and diction, 
and gives a brief history of the drama in English, 
French, Spanish, Italian, and German, with some prac- 
tical directions for rehearsing an amateur production. 
" Selected Readings " contains short sketches in prose 
and poetry, with a few in dramatic form, all chosen — 
and in many cases especially abridged — for their 
suitability to be read or recited. Naturally selections 
in lighter vein predominate. 



Notes. 



Mrs. Kate Douglas Wiggin has chosen a Shaker 
community for the setting of her next novel, to be pub- 
lished in the early Autumn under the title " Siisanna 
and Sue." 

A new novel by Mr. James Lane Allen is announced 
for Fall publication, to be entitled " The Bride of the 
Mistletoe." It will be the first work that has come 
from Mr. Allen's pen in six years. 

The Whitaker & Ray Co., San Francisco, are pub- 
lishing a six-volume edition of Joaquin MUler's Poems. 
The first volume, now at hand, contains a few poems 
only, being mainly occupied by autobiographical matter 
in prose, and extracts from the English reviews of the 
author's work. 

Spinoza's " Short Treatise," having for its subject 
"God, Man, and Human Welfare," was the philoso- 
pher's first work. Dated about 1660, it was originally 
written in Latin, and soon afterwards translated by a 
friend into Dutch. The Latin manuscript has been lost, 



1909.] 



THE DIAL 



409 



but a Dutch manuscript survives ; from this version an 
English translation has been made by Miss Lydia 
Gillingham Robinson, and is now printed by the Open 
Court Publishing Co. Sehwegler's chapter on Spinoza 
is given as an introduction. 

Messrs. D. C. Heath & Co publish the following 
French texts: M. Rostand's "La Princesse Lointaine," 
edited by Professor J. L. Borgerhoff ; Louis Desnoyers's 
" Les M^saventures de Jean-Paul Choppart," edited 
by M. C. Fontaine;" and Tocqueville's "Voyage en 
Am^rique," edited by Professor R. Clyde Ford. An in- 
teresting volume in the " Oxford Higher French Series " 
is the " Preface du Cromwell " of Victor Hugo, edited 
by Professor Edmond Wahl. 

One of the most interesting of recent Grerman auto- 
biographies is the volume of " Memoiren " by Baroness 
Bertha von Suttner, well known as a writer and an en- 
thusiastic and eloquent advocate of international peace, 
to whose influence Alfred Nobel of Sweden became so 
deeply interested in the cause of international peace as 
to establish the annual prize for the most efficient pro- 
moters of it, this prize being awarded in 1905 to Bertha 
von Suttner herself. An edition of her Memoirs, in 
English, is soon to be published by Messrs. Ginn & Co., 
the translation having been made by Mr. Nathan Haskell 
Dole. 

The Arthur H. Clark Co., of Cleveland, announce the 
early publication of a new historical series, in ten vol- 
imies, entitled " Documentary History of American 
Industrial Society." The American Bureau of Indus- 
trial Research and the Carnegie Institution of Washing- 
ton have been engaged jointly for a number of years in 
preparing this publication. The first two volumes, 
entitled " Plantation and Frontier," will be the work of 
Professor Ulrich B. Phillips. The next two, on " Labor 
Conspiracy Cases," are to be prepared jointly by Pro- 
fessors John R. Commons and Eugene A. Gilmore. The 
six remaining volumes will contain a study of the Labor 
Movement from 1820 to 1880. As the first exhaustive 
study of our economic and industrial conditions this set 
of books should prove a valuable work of reference. 

The concordance to Wordsworth, which has been in 
preparation for the Concordance Society, is now com- 
pleted, though as yet no definite steps have been taken 
to secure its publication. The work has been done under 
the direction of Professor Lane Cooper of Cornell 
University, with the help of over forty collaborators. 
The text is based upon that of Hutchinson's Oxford 
Wordsworth, supplemented by the editions of Nowell 
Smith and Knight. For the most part, the quotations 
have not been transcribed, but cut out and mounted 
from the printed page. This ought to insure a high 
degree of exactness in such matters as punctuation and 
the use of capital letters. Only the commonest words, 
particles and the like, have been omitted. In all, there 
are about 200,000 entries. It may surprise some 
readers to learn that in Wordsworth's poetry the refer- 
ences to man, and similarly to mind, are considerably 
more numerous than those to nature. 

The coming harvest of Meredithiana will doubtless 
be a rich one. Chief among the books about the de- 
ceased novelist and poet is likely to be the expected 
biography from the pen of his intimate friend, Mr. 
Edward Clodd, whose equipment and facilities for the 
undertaking are unsurpassed. Already a critical work 
on Meredith's influence upon English fiction, by Mr. 
E. J. Bailey, has been announced ; and Mr. J. A. 



Hammerton's " George Meredith in Anecdote and Crit- 
icism," begun more than seven years ago and at first 
designed as a memorial of Meredith's eightieth birth- 
day, has just been published, or is soon to be published, 
with many illustrations, by Mr. Grant Richards. 
Meredith's correspondence, the only writing of import- 
ance from his pen during his last years, will not see 
print if his informally expressed wish is respected. 
But it is more than probable that in the end he will 
join the distinguished company of Carlyle and Whistler 
and numerous others whose like prohibition has been 
regarded as losing its binding force in the light of 
subsequent developments — which is very satisfying and 
acceptable to a curious posterity. 

Mr. John Cotton Dana, librarian of the Newark Free 
Library, and Mr. Henry W. Kent, Assistant Secretary 
of the New York Metropolitan Museum, have planned 
a series of six volumes to be called the "Librarians' 
Series," of which only one thousand sets will be pub- 
lished, at a subscription price of five dollars for the entire 
series. Brief descriptions follow: " The Old Librarian's 
Almanack," a reprint of a curious pamphlet containing 
counsel and opinion from a librarian and book lover of 
1773; " The Rev. John Sharpe and His Proposal for a 
Publick Library at New York, 1713," being the sketch 
of a Colonial book-lover, at once a pathetic and com- 
mandii^ figure, told from first-hand sources, by Austin 
Baxter Keep; "The Librarian," being selections from 
the " Boston Transcript's " Library department during 
the last three years; an annotated list of the best books 
on the history and administration of libraries published 
before 1800, compiled by Beatrice Wisner of Newark; 
a translation of Delespierre's " Hoax Concerning the 
Burning of the Alexandrine Library"; and an adaptation 
of Dziatzko's " Early History of Libraries " in Pauly's 
" Encyclopaedia of Classical Antiquities." The issue of 
the set is conditioned upon the securing of a sufficient 
number of subscriptions. These should be addressed to 
the Elm Tree Press, Woodstock, Vermont. 



XiisT OF New Books. 



[TAe following list, containing 72 titles, includes books 
received by The Dial since its last issue.l 

BI0aSAFH7 AND BEMINISCENOES. 
Old Friends : Being Literary Recollections of Other Days. By 

William Winter. lUus., 8vo, pp. 406. Moffat, Yard & Co. 

|3. net. 
BecoUectlons of Seventy fears. By F. B. Sanborn. In 2 

vols., illus., 8vo. Boston: Richard Q. Badger. $5. net. 
Essays and Addresses. By Edwin Burritt Smith. With 

portrait in photogravure, 8vo, pp. 376. A. C. McClurg & Co. 

$2.50 net. 
The Lif« and Times of Laurence Sterne. By Wilbur L. 

Cross. Illus., 8vo, pp. 555. Macmillan Co. $2.50 net. 
The Gtuirt and the Spur : Vanishing Shadows of the Texas 

Frontier. By Edgar Rye. Illus., 12mo, pp. 363. W. B. 

Conkey Co. 
Sea Kingrs of Sritain : Albermarle to Hawke. By O. A. B. 

Callender, B.A. Illus. and with maps, 12mo, pp. 303. Long- 
mans, Green, & Co. $1. 

HISTORY. 

History of the United Netherlands from the Death of 
William the Silent to the Twelve Years Truce. By John 
Lotbrop Motley. In 2 vols., illus. and with maps, 8vo. 
Harper & Brothers. |3. 

The Settlement of Illinois, 1778-1830. By Arthur Clinton 
Boggess, Ph.D. 8 vo, pp. 267. Chicago: Chicago Historical 
Society. $3. net. 

Headings on American Federal Oovemment. Edited by 
Paul S. Reinsch. 8vo, pp. 850. Ginn & Co. $2.75 net. 



410 



THE DIAL 



[June 16, 



Writiners on American History. 1907: A Bibliography of 
Books and Articles on United States and Canadian History 
Published during the Year 1907. Compiled by Grace Gardner 
Griffin. Macmillan Co. 

American History : By James Alton James and Albert Hart 
Sanford. lUus., 12mo, pp. 565. Charles Scribner's Sons. 
$1.40 net. 

Beadingrs in Uodem European History : A Collection of 
Extracts from the Sources. By James Harvey Robinson and 
Charles A. Beard. Vol. II., Europe Since the Congn^ess of 
Vienna. 12mo, pp. 541. Ginn & Co. $1.40 net. 

GENEBAIi lilTEKATUBE. 
Dante in En^rlish Literature from Chaucer to Cary (C. 1880- 

1844). By Paget Toynbee. In 2 vols., 8vo. Macmillan Co. 

$5. net. 
The Works of James Buohanan, Comprising his Speeches, 

State Papers, and Private Correspondence. Collected and 

edited by John Bassett Moore. Vol. VII., 1846-1848. Limited 

edition ; large 8vo, pp. 508. J. B. Lippincott Co. $5. net. 
William Blake. By Basil De Selincourt. Illus., 12mo, pp. 290. 

Charles Scribner's Sons. $2. net. 
Belles, Beaux, and Brains of the 60's. By T. C. De Leon. 

Illus., 8vo, pp. 464. G. W. Dillingham Co. |3. net. 
The Jew in Enerlish liiterature, as Author and as Subject. 

By Rabbi Edward H. Calisch. 12mo, pp. 277. Richmond: 

Bell Book & Stationery Co. |2. net. 
Deck and Field : Addresses Before the United States Naval 

War College and on Commemorative Occasions. By Frank 

Warren Hackett. 12mo, pp. 222. Washington: W. H. 

Lowdermilk & Co. 

BOOKS OF VEBSE. 
The Mother and the Father. By W. D. Howells. Illus., 

12mo, pp. 55. Harper & Brothers. $1.20 net. 
London's Lure: An Anthology in Prose and Verse. By Helen 

and Lewis Melville. 16mo, pp.328. Macmillan Co. $1.25 net. 
World Music, and Other Poems. By Frederick John Webb. 

16mo, pp. 45. London: Arthur H. Stockwell. 
A Miracle of St. Cuthbert, and Sonnets. By R. E. Lee 

Gibson. 12mo, pp. 90. Louisville: John P. Morton & Co. 
Owen GlyndwT. and Other Poems. By Chas. H. Pritchard. 

12mo, pp. 79. London: Arthur H. Stockwell. 
The House of Hell: A Ballad of Blackfoot. By C. E. E. 

16mo, pp. 32. San Francisco : Murdock Press. 

NEW EDITIONS OF STANDARD LITEBATUBE. 
The Decameron Preserved to Posterity by Giovanni Boccaccio, 

and translated into English Anno 1620. With Introduction 

by Edward Button. Vols. III. and IV. Each 8vo. " Tudor 

Translations." London : David Nutt. 
Just So Stories. By Rudyard Kipling. Illus., 12mo, pp. 248. 

" Pocket Edition." Doubleday, Page & Co. $1.50 net. 
Julie; ou. La Nouvelle Heloise. Edition Abr^6e avec 

preface de Frank A. Hedgcock. With portrait in photo- 
gravure, 16mo, pp. 216. " Les Classiques Francais." Q. P. 

Putnam's Sons. $1. net. 
The Thoughts of Marcus Aurelius Antoninus. Edited by 

Dana Estes, M.A. With portrait, 16mo, pp. 114. Boston: 

Dana Estes & Co. 

FICTION. 
Marriage a la Mode. By Mrs. Humphry Ward. Illus. in 

color, 12mo, pp. 324. Doubleday, Page & Co. $1.20 net. 
Heather. By John Trevena. 12mo, pp. 477. Moffat, Yard & 

Co. $1.50. 
Peter, Peter. By Maude Radford Warren. Illus., 12mo, 

pp. 307. Harper & Brothers. $1.50. 
The Bunaway Place : A May Idyl of Central Park. By 

Walter P. Eaton and Elsie M. Underbill. 12mo, pp. 257. 

Henry Holt & Co. $1.50. 
In Whaling: Days. By Howland Tripp. 12mo, pp.371. Little, 

Brown & Co. $1.50. 
The Black Flier. By Edith Mac Vane. With frontispiece in 

color, 12mo, pp. 382. Moffat, Yard & Co. $1.50. 
Waylaid by Wireless. By Edwin Balmer. Illus., 12mo, 

pp. 348. Small, Maynard & Co. $1.50. 
Less Than Kin. By Alice Duer Miller. 12mo, pp. 230. Henry 

Holt & Co. $1.25. 
The Making of Bobby Bumit. By George Randolph Chester. 

Illus., 12mo, pp. 416. Bobbs-Merrill Co. $1.50. 
Homespun : A Story of Some New England Folk. By Lottie 

Blair Parker. 12mo, pp. 380. Henry Holt & Co. $1.50. 
Gamboling With Qalatea : A Bucolic Romance. By Curtis 

Dunham ; illus. in color by Oliver Herford. 12mo, pp. 185. 

Houghton Mifflin Co. $1.15 net. 



The Long Gallery. By Eva Lathbnry. 12mo, pp.363. Henry 

Holt & Co. $1.50. 
A Drama In Sunshine. By Horace Annesley Vachell. New 

edition. 12mo, pp. 347. R. F. Fenno & Co. $1. net. 

TRAVEL AND DESCRIPTION. 

The Andean Land. By Chase S. Osborn. In 2 vols., illus., 
8vo. A. C. McClurg & Co. $5. net. 

Northern France from Belgium and the English Channel to 
the Loire, Excluding Paris and its Environs: A Handbook 
for Travellers. By Karl Baedeker. Fifth edition ; with maps 
and plans, 16mo, pp. 454. Charles Scribner's Sons. $2.25 net. 

PUBLIC AFFAIRS. 

Forty Tears of American Finance: A Short Financial His- 
tory of the Government and People of the United States 
Since the Civil War, 1865-1907. By Alexander Dana Noyes. 
Second and Extended Edition of " Thirty Years of American 
Finance. 12mo, pp.418. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $1.50 net. 

The Negro Problem: Abraham Lincoln's Solution. By 
William P. Pickett. With portrait, 8vo, pp. 580. G. P. 
Putnam's Sons. $2.50 net. 

Studies in American Social Conditions. First vols.: The 
Liquor Problem, The Negro Problem, Immigration, and The 
Labor Problem. Edited by Richard Henry Edwards. Each 
16mo. Madison, Wis. : R. H. Edwards. 

RELIGION AND THEOLOGY. 

The Harvest Within : Being Thoughts on the Life of a Chris- 
tian. By A. T. Mahan, D.C.L. 12mo, pp. 280. Little, Brown 
& Co. $1.50 net. 

Old Testament Narratives. Selected and edited by George 
Henry Nettleton. 16mo, pp. 294. Henry Holt & Co. 

PHILOSOPHY AND PSYCHOLOGY. 

Genetic Psychology : An Introduction to an Objective and 

Genetic View of Intelligence. By Edwin A. Kirkpatrick. 

12mo, pp. 373. Macmillan Co. $1.25 net. 
Are the Dead Alive P By Fremont Rider. Illus.. 12mo. pp.372. 

New York: B. W. Dodge & Co. $1.75 net. 
The Philosophy of Life. By Charles Gilbert Davis, M.D. 

New edition ; 12mo, pp. 128. Chicago : D. D. Publishing Co. 

Paper. 50 cts. net. 
The Power of Self -Suggestion. By Samuel McComb, D.D. 

16mo, pp. 49. Moffat, Yard & Co. 50 cts. net. 

ART AND MTJSIC. 
The School of Madrid. By A. De Berueter Y. Moret. Illus., 

12mo, pp. 288. Charles Scribner's Sons. $2. net. 
The Orchestral Instruments and What They Do: A 

Primer for Concert-Goers. By Daniel Gregory Mason. 

Illus., 12mo, pp. 104. Baker & Taylor Co. 
Songs for the Chapel Arranged for Male Voices, for Use in 

Colleges, Academies, Schools, and Societies. Edited by 

Charles H. Morse and Ambrose White Vernon. 8vo, pp. 450. 

Charles Scribner's Sons. 

SCIENCE AND NATURE. 
Darwin and Modem Science: Essays in Commemoration 

of the Centenary of the Birth of Charles Darwin and of 

the Fiftieth Anniversary of the Publication of the Origin of 

Species. Edited by A. C. Seward. Illus. in photogravure. 

etc., large 8vo, pp. 595. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $5. net. 
Birds in Their Haunts. By C. A. Johns; revised by J. A. 

Owen. Illus. in color, 8vo, pp. 326. E. P. Dutton & Co. 

$3. net. 
The Ether of Space. By Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S. Illus., 

16mo, pp. 167. ■' Library of Living Thought." Harper St 

Brothers. 75 cts. net. _ 

Wild Flowers Every Child Should Know. Arranged 

According to Color. By Frederick William Stack. Illus. in 

color, etc., 12mo, pp. 411. Doubleday, Page & Co. $1.20 net. 

EDUCATION. 
Laggards in Our Schools: A Study of Retardation and 

Elimination in City School Systems. By Leonard P. Ayres, 

A.M. Illus., 8vo. pp. 236. New York: Charities Publication 

Committee. $1.50. 
Spanish Tales for Beginners. Edited by Elijah Clarence 

Hills, Ph.D. 16mo, pp. 298. Henry Holt & Co. 
The Elements of Hygiene for Schools. Compiled by Isabel 

Mclsaac. Illus., 12mo, pp. 172. Macmillan Co. 60 cts. net. 
Das Habichtsfraulein: Eine Dorsgeschichte aus dem Thiir- 

inger Wald. Von Rudolf Baumbach. Edited by Dr. Morton 

C. Stewart. With frontispiece, 16mo, pp. 224. Henry Holt 

&Co. 



1909.] 



THE DIAIi 



411 



mSCELLANEOnS. 
Box Furniture : How to make a Hundred Useful Articles for 

the Home. By Louise Brigham. Illus., 12mo, pp. 304. 

Century Co. $1.60 net. 
The Art of Speech and Deportment. By Anna Morgan. 

12mo, pp. 372. A. C. McClurg & Co. |1.50 net. 
Selected. Heading's Desigrned to Impart to the Student an 

Appreciation of Literature in Its Wider Sense. 12mo, 

pp. 428. A. C. McClurgr & Co. $1.50 net. 
The Legrends of the Jews. By Louis Ginzberg:; trans, by 

Henrietta Szold. Vol. I. : Bible Times and Characters from 

the Creation to Jacob. 8vo, pp. 424. Philiadelphia: Jewish 

Publication Society of America. |2. 
The Fireless Cook Book : A Manual of the Construction and 

Use of Appliances for Cooking by Retained Heat, with 260 

Recipes. By Margaret J. Mitchell. Illus., 12mo, pp. 315. 

Doubleday, Page & Co. $1.25 net. 
Hind Over Body : Letters to a Friend — a Christian Scientist. 

16mo, pp. 104. Boston: James H. West Co. $1. 
Twenty Tears in Hell with the Beef Trust. By Roger R. 

Shiel. 12mo, pp. 285. Indianapolis, Ind.: Roger R. Sbiel. 
A Little Bird Told Me I By Walt Kuhn ; illus. by the author. 

16mo, pp. 95. Life Publishing Co. 75 cts. 
The Diary of a District Messengrer. By the author of 

"Another Three Weeks." 16mo. Life Publishing Co. 

Paper, 25 cts. net. 



inVT f C nc r'Drrrr howard v. Sutherland 
lUILLiJ Ur uIvLl!iLI!i $1.00. By Mail $1.09. 

SHERMAN, FRENCH & CO.. BOSTON, MASS. 



F. M. HOLIiY 

Authors' and Publishers' Representative 

Circulars sent upon request. 156 Fifth Avenue, New York. 

Authors Seeking a Publisher 

Should communicate with 
the Cochrane Publishing Co. 
450 Tribune Building, New 
York City 

ROOFCS ^^^ OUT- OP- PRINT BOOKS SUPPLIED, 

*-'^^^^'^<J» no matter on what subject. Write us. We can get 
you any book ever published. Please state wants. Catalogue free. 
BAKER'S GREAT BOOK SHOP, 14-16 Bright St., BisMiNaHAM, Eno. 



FOR ANY BOOK ON EARTH write to H. H. TIMBY, 

Book Hunter. Catalogues free. 1st Nat. Bank Bldg., Conneaut, O. 



A New Volume in The Art of Life Series. 
Edwakd Howard Qbiggs, Editor. 

SELF-MEASUREMENT 

A Scale of Human Values ivith Directions for Personal Application 
By WILLIAM DE WITT HYDE, President of Bowdoin CoUege. 

At all bookstores. 50 cts net; postpaid, 55 cts. 
B. W. HUEBSCH PUBLISHER NEW YORY CITY 



OUR LIBRARY SERVICE 

Al/E have recently supplemented our service to Libraries, by 
» ' procuring Out-of-Print and Scarce Books, and by importing 
English books. 

Our EDUCATIONAL CATALOGUE contains a full list 
of Supplementary Reading, indicating the grade to which each 
title is adapted. 

Our CLEARANCE CATALOGUE contains overstock at 
special prices, and an alphabetical arrangement by authors of all 
cheap editions of Recent Popular Fiction and Standard Library 
12mos in one list. 

Our LI BRARY CATALOGU E of 3500 approved titles, fol- 
lowing A, L. A. lines, is of g^eat convenience to small libraries. 

Our MONTH LY BULLETIN notices promptly every new 
book of importance. 

These Catalogues are sent on request. Three notable features of 
our service are : promptness, thoroughness, and low prices. 

THE BAKER & TAYLOR CO. 

WHOLESALE DEALERS IN THE BOOKS OF ALL PUBLISHEBS 

33 East Seventeenth Street, New York 



WII I INfi WORKER wants literary work. Doctor of 
*' **-i*-«ai^v» philosophy, encyclopedist, proofreader, 
translator six langruages, typewriter. F. P. NOBLE, 1308 
BERWYN AVE., EDGEWATER, CHICAGO, ILL. 



Autograph 
Letters 



Of Celebrities Bought and Sold. 

Send for price lists. 

WALTER R. BENJAMIN, 

225 Fifth Ave., New York City. 

Pub. "THE COLLECTOR," tl a year. 



N. B.-LIBRARIANS AND BOOKSELLERS 

RECENTLY ISSUED 

"SCIENTIFIC ASPECTS OF LUTHER 

BURBANK'S WORKS" 

By David Starr Jordan and Vernon L. Kellogg. 
Octavo, illustrated. $1.75 net, postage 10 cts, 

GEORGE STERLING'S POEMS 

A WINE OF WIZARDRY and Other Verses 

12mo, cloth. $1.25 net. 

THE TESTIMONY OF THE SUNS and Other 
Verses. 3d Edition. 12mo, cloth. $1.25 net. 



PUBLISHER 



A. M. ROBERTSON 

UNION SQUARE SAN FRANCISCO 

We Make a Specialty of BOOKS and PAMPHLETS 

ON 

RAILROADS, CANALS, BANKING, AND FINANCE 

DIXIE BOOK SHOP 

Catalogue on application. 41 LIBERTY ST., NEW YORK 

"THE DOUBLE FORTUNE" 

By BERTHA LADD HOSKINS 
A splendid and dramatic tale of travel and adventure, of 
absorbing mystery and strange experiences, of love and 
tragedy ; realistic and entertaining, breathing the spirit of the 
great emotion that is the essence of all books written for a 
permanent place on our shelves. The story vibrates with intense 
human interest and the descriptions are vivid and picturesque. 
Not a dull page from start to finish. Send for it at once. 

THE NEALE PUBLISHING CO., Washington, D. C. 

WHAT IS YOUR HOBBY? 

If book-collecting, will you kindly let us 
know along what lines you are interested, 
and we shall be glad to submit quotations. 

THE ARTHUR H. CLARK CO. 

CLEVELAND. OHIO 

THE NEW YORK BUREAU OF REVISION 

Established in 1880. LETTERS OF CRITICISM. EXPERT 
REVISION OF MS8. Advice as to publication. Address 
DR. TITUS M. COAN. 70 FIFTH AVE., NEW YORK CITY 



U/llilAU D ICUI^IIIC on Publishers, Booksellers, 
lYILLIAM til JtnMllO uUi stationers, and Printers 
851-863 SIXTH AVE., Cor. 48th St., NEW YORK 

FRENCH 

AKO OTHRS 
rOBEIOK 

BOOKS 

Complete cata- 
logs on request. 



HEAD oua 
ROMANS CHOISIS. 26 Titles. Paper 
60 cts., cloth 85 cts. per volume. CONTES 
CHOISIS. 24 Titles. Paper 25 cts., cloth 
40 cts. per volume. Masterpieces, pure, by well- 
known authors. Read extensively by clasMa; 
notes in English. List on application. 



412 



THE DIAL 



[June 16, 1909. 



BOOKBINDING 

PLAIN AND ARTISTIC. IN ALL VARIETIES OF 
LEATHER 

HENRY BLACKWELL 

University Place and 10th Street, New York City 



MANUSCRIPTS 
TYPEWRITTEN 



EXPERT SERVICE 

MODERATE FEES 
L. E. Swartz, 626 Newport, Chicago 



SCARCE AND FINE BOOK CATALOGUE 

Issued monthly and mailed f rae on request. Always intebbst- 
INQ. Pbices Lowest. Send for one. JOSEPH MoDONOUQHOO. 
(Established 1870.) 98 State Street, Albany. N. Y. 

Rare and Out-of-Print Book Catalogue 

JUST ISSUED, MAILED FREE ON BEQUEST. 
WRITE US FOR ANY UNUSUAL OB OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS. 

THE LEXINGTON BOOK SHOP, 120 EAST 69th STREET, NEW YORK 



STUDY and PRACTICE of FRENCH in Four Parts 

L. C. BoNAMB, Author and Publisher, 1930 Chestnut St., Philadelphia. 
Well-graded series for Preparatory Schools and Colleges. No time 
wasted in superficial or mechanical worlt. French Text: Numerous 
exercises in conversation, translation, composition. Part I. (60 cts.): 
Primary grade; thorough drill in Pronunciation. Part II. (90 cts.): 
Intermediate grade; Essentials of Graminar; 4th edition, revised, with 
Vocabulary; most carefully graded. Par/ 77/. ($1.00): Composition, 
Idioms, Syntax; meets requirements for admission to college. Part IV, 
(35c. ) : handbook of Pronunciation for advanced grade ; concise and com- 
prehensive. Sent to teachers for examination, with a view to introduction. 



M- 



Ji: :ir irr IT —i-r- 



ANYBOOK 

advertised or 
mentioned in 
this issue mazj 
be hadjrorru 

(TmoWKFS 

Bookstore 

The Fine Arts SulLding 
yVfichi^anBlvd., Chicaqo 



JLL ^Z ^T IT IT -f1 



^ 



^ 



The Home 
Poetry Book 

We have all been 
wanting so 

lonO* ..^^^ Edited by 

iv^ixg •^^•^"^ FRANCIS F. BROWNE 

Editor "Poems of the Civil War," 
"Laurel Crowned Verse," etc. Author 
"Everyday Life of Lincoln." etc., etc. 

"GOLDEN POEMS" contains more of everyone's 
favorites than any other collection at apopu- 
lar price, and has besides the very best of the 
many line poems that have been written in 
the last few years. 

Other collections may contain more poems of one 
kind or more by one author. 

"GOLDEN POEMS" (by British and American 
Authors) has gSo selections from 300 writers, 
covering the whole range of English literature. 



"Golden Poems" 



"GOLDEN POEMS " is a fireside volume for the 
thousands of families who love ix>etry. It is 
meant for those who cannot afford all the col- 
lected works of their favorite poets— it offers 
the poems they like best, all in one volunte. 

The selections in " GOLDEN POEMS " are classi- 
fied according to their subjects : By the Fire- 
side; Nature's Voices; Dreams and Fancies; 
Friendship and Sympathy; Love; Liberty and 
Patriotism; Battle Echoes; Humor; Pathos and 
Sorrow; The Better Life; Scattered Leaves. 

" GOLDEN POEMS." with its wide appeal, at- 
tractively printed and beautifully bound, 
makes an especially appropriate Christmas 
gift. 

In two styles binding, ornamental cloth and flex- 
ible leather. Of booksellers, or the publishers, 
A. C. McCLURG & CO., CHICAGO. 
Price, fLSO- 




Entered as Second-Class Matter October 8, 1892, at the Post Office at Chicago, Illinou, under Act of March 3, 1879- 



V 



