■Mfl 



1845 



184-7 



1853 ' 



V 



ESTABklSHcQ iEv2 

mmmmmmnt.- , | 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2007 with funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



http://www.archive.org/details/dialliterarycrit40browrich 






'/a Q.Cnjf[ 



-f 



THE DIAL 



(y? Semi-Montbly Journal of 



Literary Criticism, Discussion, and Information 



" ••'•c' i..*i^- 



VOLUME XL. 
January 1 to June 16, 1906 



CHICAGO 

THE DIAL COMPANY, PUBLISHERS 

1906 



v>^5 3 3 ^ 

Tfef. 



INDEX TO VOLUME XL. 

PAGB 

Academic Welfare 31 

Actor's Memories of a Fellow Actor Percy F. Bicknell 316 

Alabama ix War-Time asd After . James Wilford Gamer .... 150 

Americax Diplomacy, Meaning and Influence of . . Frederic Austin Ogg .... 190 

American Men of Letters, Two W. E. Simonds 119 

American University, Three Decades of the . F. B. B. HeUems 289 

Apostle of Clear Thinking, An Percy F. Bicknell 285 

Carlyle's Biographer, A Biography of Percy F. Bicknell 80 

Celtic Literatltre Charles Leonard Moore . . . 185 

Christianity, The Basis of T. D. A. CockereU 323 

Churchill, Lord Randolph E. D. Adams 385 

City, The. as Democracy's Hope Charles Ziieblin 230 

Commercial Traveller in the Land of Pizabbo . Thomas H. Macbride .... 322 

Continental Literature, A Year of 34 

Earth's History, New Theories of the H. Foster Bain 384 

Education, A New History of Edward 0. Sisson 116 

England, An Oxford History of St. George L. Sioussai .... 122 

English King, Two Views of a Great Laurence M. Larson 291 

English Naturalists, The Doyen of T. D. A. CockereU 11 

European Diplo^iacy in its Beginnings David Y. Thomas 9 

Fiction, Recent William Morton Payne 15,158,262,364: 

Fiction, The Cardinal Virtues of 221 

Field Libraries Melvil Dewey 75 

France, Monarchy or Republic in Henry E. Bourne 295 

French Dramatists, The Greatest of H. C Chatfield- Taylor . . . . 192 

French Literatltie, Studies in Arthur G. Canjield 13 

Garden Blooms and Ways Sara Andrew Shafer .... 359 

Gardeners, The Greatest of Modern Thomas H. Macbride .... 47 

Goethe Biography, A Definitive Lewis A. Rhoades 85 

Government Docltients 283 

Greek Tragic Stage, A Philosophical Radical on the F. B. R. Hellems 389 

Ibsen, Henrik 351 

Ibsen Intime 379 

Immigration Problem, Studies of the Frederic Austin Ogg .... 257 

Immortality, What Is ? T. D. A. CockereU 228 

Irish Patriot, Autobiography of an Percy F. Bicknell 37 

Irish Story-Teller, A Rollicking Percy F. BickneU 382 

Jackson, Andrew, to Andrew Johnson Edwin E. Sparks 229 

Japan's Ancient Religion William Elliot Griffis .... 255 

Japanese Architecture and Allied Arts Frederick W. Gookin .... 192 

Lamb's Latest Biographer Percy F. Bicknell 6 

Lastdscape Art, Modern, The Founder of ... . Walter Cranston Lamed . . . 256 

Life-Saving as a Military Science WiUiam Elliott Griffis .... 388 

Mastery, The Masterliness of Charles H. Cooper 254 

Military Criticism of the Late W.ut William Elliot Griffis .... 194 

Novel at the Bar, The 141 

Novels, Notes on New 18 

Orient, Re-shaping of the Frederic Austin Ogg .... 317 

Pagan World, The Old Untroubled F B. R. Hellems 196 

Poet for Poets, A 3 

Poetry, Contemporary, Notes on Martha Hale Shackford . . . 249 

Poetry, Recent American WiUiam Morton Payne .... 125 

Poetry, Recent English WiUiam Morton Payne .... 325 

Point of Departure, A 109 

Precepts for the Young, and Reflections for the Old T D. A. CockereU 151 

Pre-Raphaelitism from a New Angle Edith Kellogg Dunton .... 113 

Provence: Its History, Art, ant> Literature . . . Josiah Renick Smith .... 39 

Railway-Rate Discussion, Some Cltirent H. Parker WiUis 82 



IV. 



INDEX 



Reading, Indiscriminate, The Delights of ... . Percy F. Bicknell Ill 

Reason in Religion and in Art A. K. Rogers 87 

Reynolds, Sir Joshua, and his Work Charles Henry Hart .... 225 

St. Lawrence, Discoverer of the Lawrence J. Burpee 260 

Sandwich Island Souvenirs Percy F. Bicknell 223 

Schiller, A Re-valuation of . Starr Willard Cutting .... 41 

School, The Library in the 73 

Sea Power and the War of 1812 Anna Heloise Abel 45 

Shakespeare, Two Recent Books on Charles H. A. Wager .... 89 

Shakespearean Table-Talk Edward E. Hale, Jr 148 

Slavery and Its Aftermath W. E. Burghardt Du Bois . . . 294 

Social Science, Partisans and Historians in . . . Charles Richmond Henderson . 296 

Sociological Theory, Main Currents in Frank W. Blackmar .... 146 

Sportsman-Naturalist, Tales of a Charles Atwood Kofoid . . . 356 

Teaching Profession, The 313 

Thoreau and his Critics Gilbert P. Coleman 352 

Travels by Sea and Land H. E. Coblentz 360 

Travellers in Many Lands H. E. Coblentz 232 

Tree Book, The American Bohnmil Shimek 358 

Victorian Celebrities, A Girl's Impressions of . . Percy F. Bicknell 188 

Walpole Letters, Old and New H.W. Boynton 320 

Whitman, The Real and the Ideal Percy F. Bicknell 144 

Announcements of Spring Books, 1906 204 

One Hundred Novels for Summer Reading, A Descriptive List of 368 

Briefs on New Books 20, 48, 92, 128, 156, 197, 236, 264, 298, 330, 391 

Briefer Mention 24, 52, 96, 160, 202, 239, 333 

Notes 24, 52, 97, 132, 161, 203, 239, 268, 302, 334, 367, 395 

Topics in Leading Periodicals 25, 98, 161, 240, 303 

Lists of New Books 25, 53, 99, 133, 162, 211, 241, 269, 304, 335, 371, 396 



AUTHORS AND TITLES 

PAGE 

Abbott, G.F. Through India with the Prince 362 

Adams, George Burton. Political History of England, 1066- 

1216 122 

Ady, Julia Cartwright. Raphael 160 

Aldis, Janet. Madame Geoffrin and her Salon 236 

Aldrich, Richard. Guide to the Ring of the Nibelung 97 

Aldrich, Thomas Bailey. Songs and Sonnets, Riverside 

Press edition 394 

Alexander, Mrs. Francis. II Libro D'Oro 132 

American Catalog, The, 1900-4 96 

Andrews, Arthur Lynn. Specimens of Discourse 98 

Arms, M. W. Carducci's " Poems of Italy " 359 

Armstrong, Walter. Sir Joshua Reynolds, popular edition 225 
Armstrong, Walter. The Peel Collection and the Dutch 

School of Painting 128 

Arthur, Richard. Ten Thousand Miles in a Yacht 361 

Ashley, W. J. Progress of the German Working Classes... 297 

Aston, W.G. Shinto, the Way of the Gods 255 

Atkinson, F. W. The Philippine Islands 48 

Avery, Elroy M. History of the United States, Vol II 331 

Bagot, Richard. The Passport 19 

Baker, Franklin T., and Carpenter, G«orge R. Language 

Readers 303 

Barine, ArvMe. Louis XIV. and La Grande Mademoiselle 96 

Bastian, H. Charlton. Nature and Origin of Living Matter 392 
Batchelor, John. Ainu -English -Japanese Dictionary, 

second edition 303 

Bayne, Charles J. Perdita 127 

Baxter, James Phinney. Memoir of Jacques Cartier 260 

Beach, Rex E. The Spoilers 364 

Beach, Seth Curtis. Daughters of the Puritans 160 

Beavan, Arthur H. Pishes I Have Known 302 

Beecher, Henry Ward. Sermon Briefs 161 



OF BOOKS REVIEWED 

FAOB 

Benson, E.F. The Angel of Pain 264 

Benton, Joel. Persons and Places 50 

Bemheimer, Charles S. The Russian Jew in the United 

States 259 

Bernstein, Herman. Contrite Hearts 20 

Bielschowsky, Albert. Life of Goethe, trans, by William A. 

Cooper. Vol. 1 85 

Bigelow, Melville. Centralization and the Law 333 

Bindloss, Harold. Alton of Somasco 364 

Binns, Henry B. Life of Walt Whitman 144 

Birrell, Augustine. Andrew Marvell 51 

Birrell, Augustine. In the Name of the Bodleian 159 

Blackmar, Frank W. Elements of Sociology 202 

Boas, Mrs. F. S. With Milton and the Cavaliers 94 

Borrow, George. Romano Lavo-Lil, new edition 23 

Boulton, William B. Sir Joshua Reynolds 225 

Bourne, Henry E. A History of Mediaeval and Modem 

Europe 24 

Bradley, A. G. In the March and Borderland of Wales. . 237 

Brady, Cyrus Townsend. The Patriots 263 

Brandes, Georg. Main Currents in Nineteenth Century 

Literature. Vol. VI 157 

Braun, WilhelmA. Types of Wei tschmerz in German Poetry 24 

Brooke, Stopford. On Ten Plays of Shakespeare 148 

Brown, Horatio F. In and around Venice 268 

Brown, WUliam Horace. The Glory Seekers 393 

Buley, E. C. Australian Life in Town and Country 197 

CampbeU, Wilfred. Poems, collected edition 128 

" Carbery, Ethna." The Four Winds of Eirinn 329 

Carpenter, George R. Model English Prose 161 

Carpenter, J. Estlin. James Martineau 22 

Cams, Paul. Friedrich Schiller 24 

Castle, Agnes and Egerton. If Youth But Knew ! 364 



INDEX 



PAOK 

Cawein. Madiaon J. The Vale of Tempe 126 

"Caxton Thin Paper Classics " 97. 239, 367 

Chamberlin, Thomas C and Salisbuir. Rollin D. Qeology, 

Vols. II. and HI 384 

Chambers. Alfred B. Standard Webster Pocket Dictionary 239 

Chamblin, Jean. Lady Bobs, her Brother, and 1 20 

Charlton. John. Speeches and Addresses 53 

Cheney. John Vance. Inancroral Addresses, Johnson to 

Roosevelt 133 

Churchill. Winston S. Life of Lord Randolph Churchill. . . 385 
Clement, Ernest W. Handbook of Modem Japan, revised 

edition 24 

Coit, Stanton. Mill's " The Subjection of Women " 239 

Coleridge. Ernest H. Byron's Poems, one-volume edition 240 

Collins, J. Churton. Matthew Arnold's " Merope " 203 

Collins, Vamum L. Ravagres of the British and Hessians 

in 1776-7 396 

Cook, Theodore Andrea. Old Provence 39 

Coudert, Frederic R. Addresses 51 

Cox. Isaac J. Journeys of La Salle 203 

Cram, Ralph Adams. Impressions of Japanese Architecture 192 

Crockett, S. R. Fishers of Men 264 

Crockett. S. R. The Cherry Ribband 153 

Crosby. Ernest. Garrison, the Non-Resistant 95 

Crosby, Oscar Terry. Tibet and Turkestan 234 

Crothers, Samuel M . The Pardoner's Wallet 22 

Davies, David Ffran^rcon. Sin^ring of the Future 131 

Davis, Norah. The Northerner 16 

Dawson, W. J. Makers of English Fiction 51 

Decharme, Paul. Euripides and the Spirit of his Dramas. . 389 

De Guerville. A. B. New Egrypt 235 

Devine. Edward T. Efficiency and Relief 298 

Dickinson, Edward. Study of the History of Music 23 

Dickinson, G. Lowes. The Greek View of Life 196 

Dickson. Richard Watson. Last Poems 328 

Dix, Beulah Marie. The Fair Maid of Graystones 155 

Dix, Morgan. History of Trinity Parish, Vol. Ill 198 

Downey. Edmund. Charles Lever 382 

Egan. Maurice F. The Ghost Ln Hamlet 296 

Elliot. Daniel Giraud. Check List of Manmials 133 

Ellis, Elizabeth. Barbara Winslow, Rebel 155 

Elson. Henry William. School History of the United States 203 

Elson. Louis C. Music Dictionary 333 

Eltzbacher. O. Modem Germany 333 

Elzas. Bamett A. Jews of South Carolina 392 

" English Catalogue of Books for 1905 " 302 

Eytinge. Rose, Memories of 96 

Farmer, James E. Versailles and the Court under Loois 

XIV 50 

Fitch. Clyde. The Girl with the Green Eyes 98 

Flammarion. Camille. Thunder and Lightning 331 

Fleming. Walter L. Civil War and Reconstruction in 

Alabama 150 

Ford. Worthington C. Journals of the Continental Con- 
gress 202. 334. 396 

Foster. George Burman. Finality of the Christian Religion 324 

Fowles, George M. Down in Porto Rico 363 

Friswell. Laura Hain. In the Sixties and Seventies 188 

Fry. Roger. Sir Joshua Reynolds's Discourses 225 

Gapon. Father. Story of My Life 395 

Gasiorowski. Waclaw. Napoleon's Love Story 153 

Geil. William Edgar. A Yankee in Pigmy Land 233 

George. Henry. Jr. The Menace of Privil^e 297 

GifFord. Augusta H. Italy, her People and their Story 156 

Gilder. Richard Watson. In the Heights 125 

Oilman. Daniel C. The Launching of a University 289 

Givler. Robert Chenault. Poems 127 

Gladden. Washington. Christianity and Socialism 238 

Gladden. Washington. The New Idolatry 131 

Glasgow. EUen. The Wheel of Life 156 

Gore-Booth. Eva. The Three Resurrections and the Tri- 
umph of Maeve 329 

Gosse, Edmund. French Profiles 13 

Grosse. Edmund. Sir Thomas Browne 237 

" Gray. Maxwell." The Great Refusal 155 

Greenslet. Ferris. James Russell Lowell 119 



PAOB 

Greensheilds, E. B. Landscape Painting and Modem Dutch 

Artists 300 

Grinnell. William M. Social Theories and Social Facts. . . 297 

Guerber. H. A. How to Prepare for Europe 394 

Haggard. Rider. Ayesha 20 

Haile, Martin. Queen Mary of Modena 332 

Haines, Henry S. Restrictive Railway Legislation 82 

Hale, Louis Closser. A Motor Car Divorce 386 

Hall, Prescott F. Immigration and its Effects upon the 

United Stotea 257 

Halsey, Francis W. Mrs. Rowson's " Charlotte Temple " . . 52 

Hanotaux. Gabriel. Contemporary France. Vol. U 295 

Harding. Samuel B. Essentials in Medieval and Modem 

History 24 

Hardy. Thomas. The Dynasts, part second 325 

Harper. Samuel. Russian Reader 334 

Hart, Jerome. A Levantine Log Book 234 

Harvie-Brown, J. A. Travels of a Naturalist in Northern 

Europe 363 

Harwood, W. S. New Creations in Plant Life 47 

Hasluck, Paul N. Book of Photography 98 

Havell, E. B. Benares, the Holy City 361 

Heilprin, Angelo and Louis. Lippincott's Gazetteer, revised 

edition 97 

Helen, W. H. Aspects of Balzac 52 

Heller, Otto. Studies in Modem German Literature 367 

Henderson. T. Sturge. Constable. 256 

Henry, Arthur. Lodgings in Town 19 

Herbert, Charles W. Poems of the Seen and the Unseen . . . 328 

Herrick. Christine T. Lewis Carroll Birthday Book 98 

Hill, David J. History of European Diplomacy, Vol. 1 9 

HiU, George Birkbeck. Johnson's " Lives of the Poets ".. . 203 

" Hobbes. John Oliver." The Flute of Pan 18 

Hoffding. Harald. Problems of Philosophy 160 

Holder. Charles Frederick. Life in the Open 356 

Holder. Charles Frederick. Log of a Sea Angler 356 

Holland. Robert Afton. The Commonwealth of Man 297 

Holman-Hunt, William. Pre-Raphaelitism and the Pre- 
Raphaelite Brotherhood 113 

Holt, Henry. " Calmire " and " Sturmsee," new editions. . 289 

Hooper. Charles E. The Country House 200 

Hopkins. Herbert M. The Mayor of Warwick 365 

Hough. Emerson. Heart's Desire 155 

Howe. Frederic C. The City, the Hoi)e of Democracy 230 

Hudson, W. H. The Purple Land, new edition 24 

Hughes. Rupert. Zal 20 

Hulbert. Archer B. Washington and the West 93 

Hume. John F. The Abolitionists 333 

Hume. Martin. The Wives of Henry the Eighth 293 

Humphrey. Seth K. The Indian Dispossessed 21 

Hunt. Bampton. Green Room Book 396 

Hunt. William. Political History of England. 1760-1801 122 

Hunt. William, and Poole, R. L. Political History of 

England 122 

Hutton. Edward. Cities of Umbria 199 

Hutton. Richard Holt. Brief Literary Criticisms 302 

Jackson. Charles T. Loser's Luck 17 

Jacobs.W.W. Captains AU 19 

Jefferies. Richard. "Amaryllis at the Fair" and "After 

London." Dutton's reprints 302 

Jenks. Tudor. In the Days of Scott 334 

Jones, Samuel L. Letters of Labor and Love 129 

Kelley. Florence. Ethical Gains through Legislation 23 

Kenyon. Frederic G. Robert Browning and Alfred Domett 395 

King, Henry Churchill. Rational Living 151 

King. W. L. Mackenzie. The Secret of Heroism 301 

Konkle. Burton A. Life and Speeches of Thomas Williams 229 

Krausz. Sigmund. Practical AutomobUe Dictionary 303 

Kuhnemann. Eugen. Schiller 41 

Lane. Martha A. L., and Hill, Mabel. American History 

in Literature 239 

Lane, Mrs. John. The Champagne Standard 200 

Lang. Andrew. New Collected Rhymes 327 

Lang. Andrew. Oxford, illustrated edition 24 

Lang. Andrew. Sir Walter Scott 394 

Lang. Andrew. The Secret of the Totem 265 



VI. 



INDEX 



PAGE 

Lankester, E. Eay. Extinct Animals 238 

Le Roy, James A. Philippine Life in Town and Country. . 198 

Legge, Arthur E. J. The Ford 154 

Leonard, John W. Who's Who in America, 1906 159 

Liljencrantz, Ottilie A. Randvar the Songsmith 366 

Lincoln, Jeanie Gould. The Javelin of Fate 18 

" Liquor Problem, The: A Summary of Investigations con- 
ducted by the Committee of Fifty, 1893-1903 " 203 

Lodge, George Cabot. The Great Adventure 126 

London, Jack. War of the Classes 297 

Long, Augustus W. American Poems, 1776-1900 396 

Lottridge, Silas A. Animal Snapshots and How Made 94 

Lounsbery, G. Constant. Love's Testament 329 

Lucas, E. V. Life of Charles Lamb 6 

Ludlow, James M. Sir Raoul 16 

Lyman, Henry M. Hawaiian Yesterdays 223 

Lynde, Francis. The Quickening 262 

' ' Maartens, Maarten." The Healers 264 

McDermid, William A. Songs of the University of Chicago 303 

Macdonald, Ronald. The Sea Maid 263 

Mahan, A. T. Sea Power and its Relations to the War of 1812 45 
Maitland, J. A. Fuller. Grove's " Dictionary of Music and 

Musicians," Vol. II 267 

Major, Charles. Yolanda 19 

Margoliouth, D. S. Works of Flavius Josephus 396 

" Mark Twain's Library of Humor " 98, 268, 334, 396 

Marks, Mary A. M. The Tree of Knowledge 329 

Marston, Edward. Fishing for Pleasure and Catching It. . 396 

Marvin, Frederic Rowland. The Companionship of Books 95 

Masterman, C. F. G. In Peril of Change 391 

Mathews, Robert V. Child of the Stars 20 

Maxwell, W. B. Vivien 154 

Mayer, Alfred G. Sea-shore Life 238 

Mead, Edwin D. Dodge's "War Inconsistent with the 

Religion of Christ " 269 

Mead, Lucia A. Patriotism and the New Internationalism 367 

Meakin, Budgett. Model Factories and Villages 159 

Medlicott, Mary. Abbreviations Used in Book Catalogues 97 

Meredith, George, Works of, " Pocket edition " 367 

Merejkowski, Dmitri. Peter and Alexis 153 

Merriam, George S. The Negro and the Nation 294 

Michelson, Miriam. A Yellow Journalist 20 

Mifflin, Lloyd. Sonnets, collected edition 125 

Milford, H. S. Cowper's Poems, Oxford edition 96 

Mill, Hugh R. The Siege of the South Pole 360 

Millar, A. H. Mary Queen of Scots 266 

Miller, Joaquin. The Building of the City Beautiful 300 

Mims, Edwin. Sidney Lanier 119 

Minchin, Harry C. Simples from Sir Thomas Browne's 

Garden 34 

Mitchell, S. Weir. Pearl 239 

Mitton, G. E. Jane Austen and her Times 158 

Monroe, Paul. Text-Book in the History of Education 116 

Moore, George. The Lake 263 

Moore, John Bassett. American Diplomacy 190 

Morris, Sir Lewis. The New Rambler 92 

Muller, P. Max. Life and Religion 152 

Murray, A. H. Hallam. The High-Road of Empire 235 

" Musician's Library " 133 

''National Educational Association Proceedings," Meeting 

of 1905 97 

Naylor, James Ball. The Kentuckian 365 

Nevin, Blanche. Great-Grandma's Looking-Glass 203 

Newcomb, Simon. Compendiimi of Spherical Astronomy. . 396 

Newman, Ernest. Musical Studies 160 

" Newnes' Art Library " 160 

Nicholson, Meredith. The House of a Thousand Candles. . 155 

Noyes, Ella. The Casentino and its Story 131 

Noyes, Walter Chadwick. American Railroad Rates 82 

Nugent, Meredith. New Games and Amusements 52 

O'Brien, William. Recollections 37 

Ochlenschlager's "Axel and Valberg," trans, by Frederick 

S. Kolbe 367 

" Old South Leaflets " 97 

Oppenheim, E. Phillips. A Maker of History 154 

Osier, William. Counsels and Ideals 93 



PAGE 

Ostwald, Wilhelm. Individuality and Immortality 228 

" Oxford Poets " 96 

Page, Curtis H. Chief American Poets 96 

Page, N. Clifford. Twenty Songs by Stephen C. Foster. ... 334 

Painter, F. V. N. Great Pedagogical Essays 203 

Pais, Ettore. Ancient Legends of Roman History 201 

Palmer, Frederick. Lucy of the Stars 366 

Palmer, George H. Works of George Herbert 129 

Parker, William B., and Viles, Jonas. Letters and Ad- 
dresses of Thomas Jefferson 97 

Parrish, Randall. A Sword of the Old Frontier 16 

Parrish, Randall. Historic Illinois 94 

Passmore, T. H. In Further Ardenne 234 

Paul, Herbert. History of Modem England, Vol. IV 95 

Paul, Herbert. Life of Froude 80 

Pepper, Charles M . Panama to Patagonia 322 

Peters, Madison C. The Jews in America 260 

Pfleiderer, Otto. Christian Origins 323 

Phelps, Albert. Louisiana 157 

Phillips, L. March. In the Desert 233 

Phillips, Stephen. Nero 326 

Phillpotts, Eden. The Portreeve 364 

" Photograms of the Year, 1905 " 97 

Piatt, Isaac H. Bacon Cryptograms in Shakespeare 90 

Pollard, A. F. Henry VIII 291 

Potter, Margaret. The Genius 366 

Prince, Morton. The Dissociation of a Personality 266 

" Princess Priscilla's Fortnight " 18 

Prothero, Rowland E. Letters of Richard Ford 266 

Prout, Ebenezer. Songs and Airs by Handel 133 

Putnam, James J. Memoir of Dr. James Jackson 130 

Quayle, William A. The Prairie and the Sea 238 

Quick, Herbert. Double Trouble 263 

Ranck, George W. The Bivouac of the Dead and its Author 98 

Rawling, C.G. The Great Plateau 235 

Reed, John C. The Brothers' War 92 

Reid, Forrest. The Garden God 267 

Repplier, Agnes. In our Convent Days 51 

Rhys, Ernest. Everyman's Library 393 

Richman, Irving E. Rhode Island 132 

Rickett, Leonard A. Poems of Love and Nature 328 

Robertson, Morgan. Land Ho 19 

Robins, Edward. William T. Sherman 239 

Robinson, James H. Readings in European History 333 

Robinson, Tracy and Lucy. Selections from the Poetry of 

John Payne 326 

Rogers, Julia E. The Tree Book 358 

Roosevelt, Theodore. Outdoor Pastimes of an American 

Hunter 49 

Ross, Janet. Florentine Palaces and their Stories 160 

Rothschild, Alonzo. Lincoln, Master of Men 254 

" Royal Academy Pictures, 1905 " 202 

Runkle, Bertha. The Truth about Tolna 367 

St. Maur, Kate V. A Self-Supporting Home 130 

St. Pierre's " Paul et Virginie," Riverside Press edition 394 

Sainte-Beuve's " Portraits of the Eighteenth Century," 

trans, by Katharine Wormeley and George B. Ives 130 

Salter, Emma G. Franciscan Legends in Italian Art 199 

Sampson, John. Poetical Works of Blake 160 

Sanborn, Mary F. Lynette and the Congressman 16 

Sands, H. Hayden. The Valley of Dreams 126 

Santayana, George. The Life of Reason 87, 300 

Scarritt, Winthrop E. Three Men in a Motor Car 363 

Schillings, C. G. Flashlights in the Jungle, trans, by Fred- 
erick Whyte 232 

Schouler, James. Americans of 1776 299 

Schuyler, Montgomery, Jr. Bibliography of the Sanskrit 

Drama 396 

Scott, Duncan C. New World Lyrics and Ballads 127 

Seaman, Louis L. The Real Triumph of Japan 388 

Sedgwick, Henry Dwight. Short History of Italy 156 

Selincourt, Basil de. Giotto 158 

Selous, Edmund. The Bird Watcher in the Shetlands 198 

Sewell, Cornelius V. V. Common-Sense Gardens 360 

Shaler, Nathaniel. Man and the Earth 132 

Shand, Alexander I. Days of the Past 237 



INDEX 



Vll. 



PAOX 

Sharpley, Hugo. A Realist of the ..Egean 367 

Shelton. Louise. The Seasons in a Flower-Garden 360 

Sherman, Frank D., and Scollard. Clinton. A Southern 

Flight 127 

Sherwood, Margaret. The Coming of the Tide 19 

Shuckburgh, E. S. iJreece, from the Coming of the Hellenes 

to A. D. U 332 

Sidgwick, Mrs. Alfred. The Professor's Legacy 18 

Sienkiewicz. Henryk. On the Field of Glory 153 

Sieper, Ernst. Longfellow's "Evangeline" 132 

Sinclair, Upton. The Jungle 262 

Sinclair, William A. The Aftermath of Slavery 294 

Singer, H. W. Drawings of Von Menzel 202 

Singleton. Esther. Holland 302 

Skae. Hilda T. Mary Queen of Scots 266 

Slater, Joseph. Book-Prices Current, 1905 97 

Slater, J. Herbert. How to Collect Books 24 

Small, Albion W. General Sociology 146 

Smiley, James B. Manual of American Literature 303 

Smith, Gold win. Irish History and the Irish Question 330 

SoUas, W. J. The Age of the Earth 300 

Spargo. John. The Bitter Cry of the Children 298 

Sparks. Edwin £. Incidents Attending Johnston's Cap- 
tivity 24 

Spears, John R. Admiral Farragnt 51 

" Spirit of the Age Series " 303 

Stanwood, Edward. James G. Blaine 49 

Stephen, Sir Leslie. Thomas Hobbes 157 

Stephenson, Henry T. Shakespeare's London 89 

Stickney, Trumbull. Poems 125 

Stokes, Hugh. Etchings of Charles Meryon 202 

Street, George E. Mount Desert 268 

Strong, Josiah, Tolman, W. H., and Bliss, W. D. P. Social 

Progress. 1906 396 

" Supplementary Papers of the American School of Classical 

Studies in Rome," Vol. 1 239 

Suttner, Baroness von. Ground Arms, new edition 53. 161 

Swiggett, Glen L. MUton's "Ode on the Morning of 

Christ's Nativity " 133 

Swinburne, A. C. Tragedies, new library edition 330 

Symons, Arthur. Spiritual Adventures 201 

Tarkington, Booth. The Conquest of Canaan 155 

Taylor, H. C. Agricultural Elconomics 298 

Tennyson's "In Memoriam," "Golden Treasury" edition 133 

Thayer, Harvey W. Laurence Sterne in Germany 24 

Thomdike, Lynn. Place of Magic in the Intellectual His- 
tory of Europe 133 

Tolstoy, Leo. Christianity and Patriotism 97 



PASS 

Tout. T. F. Political History of England. 1216-1377 122 

Toynbee, Mrs. Paget. Letters of Horace Walpole 320 

Traubel, Horace. With Walt Whitman in Camden 144 

Trent, William P. Greatness in Literature 23 

Trollope, Henry M. Life of Moliere 192 

Underhill, Evelyn. Miracles of Our Lady Saint Mary 367 

Vance, Louis Joseph. The Private War 365 

Van Dyke. Henry. Essays in Application 20 

Van Vorst, Marie. Miss Desmond 19 

Vaughn, John. Wild Flowers of Selbome 359 

Vedder, Henry C. Balthasar Hubmaier 267 

Wallace. Alfred Russel. My Life 11 

"War in the Far East, The" 194 

"Ward, A. B." The Sage Brush Parson 282 

Ward. H. Snowden. The Canterbury Pilgrimages 268 

Wardman, Ervin. The Princess Olga 366 

Warner, Beverly. Famous Introductions to Shakespeare's 

Plays 332 

Watson, Edward W. Old Lamps and New 127 

Watson. H. B. Marriott. Twisted Eglantine 17 

Watson, William. Poems, collected edition 24 

Wauchope, George A. Lamb's " Essays of Elia " 334 

Weale, B. L. Putnam. The Re-Shaping of the Far East 317 

Wells, H.G. A Modem Utopia 296 

WeUs. H. G. Kipps 17 

Wertheimer, Edward de. The Duke of Reichstadt 21 

Weyman, Stanley J. Starvecrow Farm 17 

Wharton, Edith. The House of Mirth 15 

Whelpley, James D. Problem of the Immigrant 259 

" Who's ^^'ho" (English) 1906 161 

Wilkins. W. H. Mrs. Fitzherbert and George IV 202 

Williams. C. F. Abdy. Story of Organ Music 395 

Williamson, C. N. and A. M. My Friend the Chauffeur 154 

Wilson, Francis. Joseph Jefferson 316 

Winship. George P. SaUors' Narratives of Voyages along 

the New England Coast 301 

Wister, Owen. Lady Baltimore 365 

Wolff, Julius. The Wild Huntsman, trans, by Ralph 

Davidson 98 

Wood, W. Birbeck. and Edmonds. J. E. History of the 

Civil War 264 

Woodberry, George E. Swinburne 3 

Woodberry, George E. The Torch 236 

Woods, F. A. Mental and Moral Heredity in Royalty 299 

" World's Classics" 396 

Wright, Joseph. English Dialect Grammar 24 

Zimmem. Alice. Old Tales from Rome 302 

Zneblin, Charles. A Decade of Civic Development 200 



MISCELLANEOUS 



American Literature in British Periodicals, ^f. B. A 223 

Barnes & Co.'s Acquisition of the United Educational Co.'s 

Business 761 

Bibliographic Needs and Possibilities. Eugene Fairfield 

McPike 78 

Book Advertising, The Principles of. George French 5 

" Burlington Magazine " 239 

Editorial Career, A Distinguished. W. H. Johmon 380 

English Metre, A New Theory of. Edward P. Morton 381 

Fox. Duffield & Co.'s Acquisition of Herbert S. Stone & Co.'s 

Business 203 

Harland, Henry, Death of 52 

Harper, William Rainey, Death of 53 



"Hawaiian Yesterdays." The Author of. Sara Andrew 

Shafer 253 

Molmenti's Venice, Announcement of 6 

Naval Warfare, Improvised Means of. F. H. Cottello 287 

" Paradise Lost," A Japanese Translation of 324 

Smith. Edwin Burritt, Death of 335 

Swinburne as " a Love Poet." Franeig Howard Willianu 79 
Swinburne as " a Love Poet," A Final Word about. Henry 

S. Pancoast 112 

Swinburne's Poetry. Henry S. Pancoast 36 

War of 1812, Late Discussions of the. F. H. Cottello 143 

War of 1812, Peace Terms of the. A.T.Mahan 253 



THE 




lAL 



Jl SEMI-MONTHLY JOURNAL OF 

yittraxg Critixism, gisrusston, antr Information. 



Edited by 
FRANCIS F. BROWNE 



\ Volume XL, 



CHICAGO, JAN. 1. 1906. 



10 ei*. a copy, f Fnra Asrs BciuJiso 



t2. a year. 



a08 Michigan Blvd. 



THE NEW BOOKS 

DESTINED TO BECOxME OF PERMANENT AND LASTING VALUE 



SAMUEL M. CROTHERS'S 



The Pardoner's Wallet 



"It is time the country awoke to the fact that in Samuel M. Crothers it has a humorist <rf the first rank, a satirist of no 
mean ability, and an essayist to be reckoned with." — Chicago Tribune, $136 net. Postpaid. fl.3S. By the author Qi 
" The Gentle Header." 



EDWIN MIMS'S 

Sidney Lanier 

" An admirable piece of discriminating, judicious, intelli- 
grent. and sympathetic interpretation." — The Outlook, 
New York. With portraits. tlM net. Posti>aid. tl.62. 
HAMrLTOx Wkight Mabce, in reviewing Mr. Greenslet's 
" Lowell " and Professor Mims's " Lanier," in the Xew 
York Timet, says: *' It is safe to say that no more thor- 
oughly competent pieces of writing have been done in this 
field in this country than these weU-constructed, weU- 
balanced. and well-written stndies of two men of high 
importance in oar literary history." 

Gieorge Herbert 

" An elaborate edition of Herbert that is learned without being pedantic, and full without being replete — the kind ol 
work of which our universities might well be more prodigaL" — yew York Evening Pott. In 3 volumes. Fully illus- 
trated. 16.00 ne^ Postpaid. $6.44. 



FERRIS GREENSLETS 

James Russell Lowell 

" To say that Mr. Greenslet's chapters on Lowell's prose 
and poetry are the best ever written on this subject does 
not sufficiently distinguish them ; they will stand among 
the best criticism produced here or in E^ngland in recent 
years." — William R. Thattee in the Harvard Grad- 
uates' Magazine. Illustrated. $1.50 nW. Postpaid, $1.62. 
(id edition.! 

GEORGE HERBERT PALMER'S 

The Works of 



SAMUEL M. CROTHERS'S 

The Endless Life 

" It will give comfort to that class of mind which wishes 
to believe in immortality but is not satisfied with ordinary 
theologrical proofs." — yew York Obterver . 75 cents n«f. 
Postpaid, 81 cents. 



PAUL E. MORE'S 

Byron's Complete Poems 

" WTiat a kindness it is to the busy man, what a blessing 
to him whose sh«lf-^tx>m is Umited, to put aU of a classical 
author's works into a single volume that is readable and 
attractive."— ^'etc York Sun. With portrait, notes, and 
index. $3.00. 



GEORGE CAVENDISH'S 



Life of Cardinal Wolsey 



A sumptuous edition ot the first biography written in the English tongue. With portraits in sepia and red chalk tints 
by Hoi t>ein and others. "It can compete successfully with any of the new novels." — A>ir YorkTribune. $7.50 n«f, postpaid. 



IRVING B. RICHMAN'S 

Rhode Island 

" Mr. Richman writes with enthusiasm, and his treatment 
is adequate, developing the social and economic as well 
as the political and constitutional history of the State." 
— The Outlook. With maps. fl-lO net. Postpaid, $1.21. 



ALBERT PHELPS'S 

Louisiana 

" A comprehensive history of the State in a narrative that 
has all the fascination of a work of fiction." — yew 
Orleans Slates. With map. $1.10 net. Postpaid, $1.20. 
The last two volumes are the most recent additions to 
the American Commonwealths Series. 



HENRY D. SEDGWICK'S 



A Short Histor>^ of Italy 



" It gives a clearer and more distinct idea of ancient and modem Italian history than most of the larger and more pre- 
tentious works." — Boston Transcript. With maps. $2.00 ne^. Postpaid. $2.17. 



HOUGHTON, MIFFLIN & COMPANY, BOSTON AND NEW YORK 



THE DIAL [Jan. 1,1906. 



Important Macmillan Announcements 



READY JANUARY 5 

The Life of Lord Randolph Churchill 

By WINSTON SPENCER CHURCHILL, M.P. 

When it became known that Mr. Churchill was engaged in writing a book dealing in an 
exhaustive manner witli the brilliant career of his father, the liveliest anticipations were 
aroused in all circles where an interest is taken in the public life of England. Lord 
Randolph Churchill occupied so conspicuous a i)osition among his contemporaries in poli- 
tical life, and impressed his personality so eifectively on the public mind of his time, that 
it was immediately recognized that a book dealing adequately with his career, by a writer 
who in his turn has achieved distinction both as author and politician, must possess more 
than ordinary interest for English readers. 

The two volumes will contain more than eleven hundred pages ; several portraits and some 
other illustrations will be included. Price of the set, $9.00 net. 

READY JANUARY 13 — THE SECOND EDITION OF 

Salve Venetia! Gleanings from History 

By Mr. F. MARION CRAWFORD. Illustrated by JOSEPH PENNELL. 

Two volumes in a box, crown 8vo, $5.00 net. Carriage extra. 

" The book presents in attractive form all that is stirring, picturesque, and memorable in the 
history, art, and architecture of Venice and the life of its people." — " Even better than the book 
on mediaeval Rome does ' Salve Venetia ' reveal Mr. Crawford's splendid gift as historian, as a 
niediiun for the dramatic presentation of the chronicles of a wonderful community." (^Record- 
Herald, Chicago.) — "An ideal book about Venice." {New York Tribune.) — "Venice affords 
Mr. Crawford full opportiuiity for the exercise of his great power of dramatic presentation, and 
for graphic descriptions of bygone scenes which throb with life and reality." {Boston Herald.) 

READY JANUARY 17 

Pre=Raphaelitism and the Pre=Raphaelite Brotherhood 

By WILLIAM HOLMAN HUNT, author of "The Life of Williamson," etc. 

Two volumes. Richly illustrated. $6.00 net. Carriage extra. 

Great interest has been aroused in all art circles by the announcement of this profoundly 
interesting contribution to the history of British art. The work will be uniform with the 
" Memorials of Edward Burne-Jones," published last fall. It will be devoted to the lives 
and work of that band of men who did more than any other to restore life and vitality and 
meaning to English art during the last century. " I trust," writes the author, " that my 
story of the private life of these men of genius will glorify them not less than those more 
ceremonious histories of their career, in which they appear as it were in stiff brocades 
and fine coats, donned to fence them from the eyes of the vulgar." The author was one 
of the thi'ee founders of the Pre-Raphaelite Movement. 

NOW READY 

The Modern Trust Company 

By F. B. KIRKBRIDE and J. E. STERRETT. Cloth, 309 pages. $2.50 net. 

This is the first book to give a full and consistent description of the various lines of work 
in which a modern trust company engages. It discusses the duties of trust company 
officers and the relation of trust companies to the banking community and the public. 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY, PUBLISHERS, 64=66 FIFTH AVE., NEW YORK 



THE DIAL 

^ Scmi'sfHonttls Jloumal of ILttcrarg Criticism, Qisntssian, anU Jcnformatiott. 



THE DIAL (founded in 1880) U publithed on the lit and 16th 
of each month. Tebms of SirBSCKipnoN,#2. o year in advance, 
postage prepaid in the United States, Canada, and Mexico; 
in other countries comprised in the Postal Union, 50 cents a 
year for extra postage viust be added. Eemittauces should 
be by check, or by express or postal order, payable to THE 
DIAL COMPANY. Unless otherwise ordered, subscriptions 
nill begin with the current number. When no direct request 
to discontinue at expiration of subscription is received, it is 
assumed that a continuance of the subscription is desired. 
Advektisinq Bates furn ished on application. All communi- 
cations should be addressed to 

THE DIAL, Fine Arts Building, Chicago. 

ENTKEED AT THE CHICAGO POSTOFFICB AS SECOND-CLASS MATTEB 
BY THE DIAL COMPANY, PUBLJSHERS. 



No. 469. 



JANUARY 1, 1906. 



Vol. XL. 



Contexts. 

PAOK 

A POET FOR POETS 3 

COMMUNICATION 5 

The Principles of Book Advertising. George 
French. 

CHARLES LAMB'S LATEST BIOGRAPHER. Percy 

F.Bicknell 6 

EUROPEAN DIPLOilACY IN ITS BEGINNINGS. 

David Y. Thomas 9 

THE DOYEN OF ENGLISH NATURALISTS. 

T. D. A. Cockerell 11 

STUDIES IN FRENCH LITERATURE. Arthur 

G. Canfield 13 

RECENT FICTION. William Morton Payne ... 1.5 
Wharton's The House of Mirth. — Davis's The 
Northerner. — Sanborn's Lynnette and the Con- 
gressman. — Ludlow's Sir Raool. — Parrish's A 
Sword of the Old Frontier. — Jackson's Losers' 
Luck. — Watson's Twisted Eglantine. — WejTnan's 
Starvecrow Farm. — Wells's Kipps. — The Princess 
Priscilla's Fortnight. — Craigie's The Flute of Pan. 

— Sidgwick's The Professor's Leg^acy. 

NOTES ON NEW NOVELS 18 

BRIEFS ON NEW BOOKS 20 

A book of good sense and sound ideals. — The blot 
on our national escutcheon. — The son of Napoleon 
and Marie Louise. — A pardon for our peccadillos. 

— The greatest of L'^nitarians. — A handbook of 
musical history. — Some ethical gains through 
legislation. ^ Pleasant papers on literary themes. 

— The Romany Word - Book. 

BRIEFER MENTION 24 

NOTES 24 

TOPICS IN LEADING PERIODICALS 25 

LIST OF NEW BOOKS 25 



A POET FOB POETS. 



" Liberty, melody, passion, fate, nature, love, 
and fame are the seven chords which the poet's 
hand, from its first almost boyhood touch upon 
the l\Te, has swept now for two score years with 
music that has been blown through the world." 
Thfese words strike the key-note of Professor 
Woodberry's appreciation of Mr. Swinburne's 
poetry — a book in form, an essay in dimensions, 
and a nugget of pure gold in critical quality. 
We are indebted to Mr. Woodberry for many 
precious earlier gifts — for much noble verse of 
his own and for much finely-tempered discourse 
upon the verse of other men — but to no piece of 
his writing more than to this, in which the poet 
speaks of the poet straight to the heart of all 
who love poetry. 

We started to read Mr. Woodberry's essay 
with some misgivings. He has been charged with 
defective sympathies, with putting too much of 
the New England conscience into his judgment 
of Poe, for example, and of other writers in 
whose temperament the puritan spirit has no 
part. We are not sure that this charge is jus- 
tified, but the plaintiffs at least have a case. 
Remembering the utter failiu-e of LoweU to do 
anything like justice to the poet of " Atalanta," 
we feared lest his latest successor might exhibit 
the same sort of spiritual blindness. On the 
other hand, there stootl Mr. Woodberry's record 
as a lover of SheUey, and to share the inspiration 
of SheUey is to have the franchise of the poetic 
kingdom of heaven. We recalled, moreover, cer- 
tain of Mr. Woodberry's earlier poems which 
distinctly showed the mark of the Swinbumian 
influence. 

Considered thus in its a priori aspect, the 
question of what the critic would have to say 
about the greatest of living poets seemed a little 
doubtful, but wliatever misgivings we may have 
felt were soon disjielled. The words set at the 
head of this article were alone sufficient for 
that pm-pose, and they were foimd to be supple- 
mented by many others which left no doubt 
concerning the writer's sympathies. Such words, 
for example, are these : " Strength is dominant 
in his genius : the things of strength are in his 
verse ; it is English genius and English strength. 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 1, 



racial in lyric power, in free intellect, in bold 
speech, — none more so — and English also in its 
poetic scholarly tradition." And besides these 
general appraisements, there are such specific 
dicta as the following : " The stream of his rev- 
olutionary song is unmatched in volume, splen- 
dour, and force ; it has flowed life-long, and 
still wells ; it is blended of many loves of per- 
sons and histories and memories, of time and of 
eternity ; it is a great passion, great in personal 
intensity, great in its human outreaching and 
uplifting aspiration, great in sincerity." " He 
achieves the most genuine appearance of belief 
in the gods that has fallen to the fortune of any 
English poet, perhaps of any poet in any niod- 
ern literature." " Such poetry [as 'Tristram '] 
brings back that early world in which old 
Triton blew his wreathed horn, and not in a 
vision only, but as the everlasting life of nature 
and man." 

In view of the grotesque misconception of 
Mr. Swinburne's poetry that is still current 
with a large section of the public, the critic who 
deals honestly and intelligently with him is 
under bonds, as it were, to cast his gauntlet 
boldly in the face of ignorance and prejudice. 
This Mr. Woodberry does without hesitation. 
"He is a very thoughtfid poet" is his simple 
but adequate correction of the stupid notion 
that the author of " Hertha " and " The Last 
Oracle " is a poet of sound without sense. Those 
who condenm the poet for exaggeration, whether 
in praise of Hugo or censure of Louis Napoleon, 
will do weU to weigh the coimter-opinion that his 
study of Hugo belongs to " a treasure of intui- 
tive criticism such as no other English poet has 
left," and the characterization of the " Dirae " 
as " curses to rejoice the heart," which " mark 
their victims indelibly for heU." Mr. Wood- 
berry says with entire truth that criticism of 
this poet hitherto " has never been adequate, 
just, or intelligent." " The truth about him is 
the exact opposite of what has been widely and 
popularly thought ; weakness, affectation, exotic 
foreignness, the traits of aestheticism in the 
debased sense of that word, are far from him ; 
he is strong, he is English, bred with an Euro- 
pean mind it is true like SheUey, like Gray and 
Milton, but in his own genius and temperament 
and the paths of his flight charged with the 
strength of England." 

Such statements as these clear the air won- 
derfidly. They are mspired criticism ; and Mr. 
Swinburne has been the victim of so much crit- 
icism (if it deserve the name) of the dull and 
uninspired sort tliat its drone still lingers in our 



ears. Sound and fury, debased sensualism, 
vacuity of thovight — these are honestly sup- 
posed by many well-meaning jjcople to be the 
essential attributes of his work. Soimd and 
fury, and we think of the severe and tempered 
style of " Mary Stuart "; debased sensualism, 
and we recall the austere idealism of " The Pil- 
gruns "; vacuity of thought, and we wonder- 
ingly repeat the deep gnomic utterances of 
" Hertha " and " The Last Oracle " ! But of 
course the people who use these glib plu-ases 
are either imacquainted with the poet's reaUy 
significant work, or they are to be reckoned 
among the imf ortunates who are impervious to 
the appeal of pure poetry. This latter class is 
a larger one than is commonly suspected, for 
there are great numbers of readers everywhere 
who think and say that they love poetry, when 
what really attracts and impresses them is some 
adventitious quality that has little to do with 
poetical character. The comfortable conserva- 
tism of a Wordsworth, the domestic sentunent- 
ality of a Tennyson, the cryptic moralizing of a 
Browning, bring to the works of these poets a 
host of admiring readers who mistake for aes- 
thetic satisfaction the delight with which they 
greet the echo of their own sentiments or prej- 
udices. 

We are not saying that these three are not 
gi'eat poets, for that they unquestionably are ; 
but we are asserting with much confidence that 
they woidd be no less great as poets were their 
writings divested of nearly everything that 
makes an appeal to nine-tenths of their atbnir- 
ers. They would lose their popidarity, no doubt, 
and become merely poets for poets, and for the 
small minority of those others who, without pos- 
sessing for themselves the creative facidty, are 
still of the elect whose spirits are finely touched 
to fine issues, and whose ciunulative verdict 
determines the final rank of every poet in the 
hierarchy. Landor is one of the greatest En- 
glish poets despite his failure to win popular 
applause ; Mr. Swinburne is one of the great 
English poets despite all the efforts of the 
" homy-eyed " to prove that he is not by their 
damnable iteration of catchpenny phrases. Mr. 
Woodberry, himself a poet of distinction, sees 
this fact cleai'ly enough, and gives abundant 
reasons for the faith that is in him. It is a fact, 
moreover, that has already been seen by nearly 
all the competent critics of the present genera- 
tion, which is equivalent to saying that the only 
contemporary judgment which will count in the 
\dtimate reckoning has already ranged itseK 
upon the side of those who have, through good 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



and ill report, acclaimed Mr. Swdnbume's 
genius, and found his work to exhibit, in very 
high degree, the qualities of artistic expression, 
of intellectual stimulus, and of ethical inspira- 
tion. To quote Mr. Woodberry's simple clos- 
ing words, " there are, in the wide world, here 
and there a few — a nmnber that will increase 
ever with passing generations, and is even now 
perhaps manyf old greater than the poet knows 
— in whose hearts his poetry is lodged with 
power." 



COMMUNICA TION. 



THE PRINCIPLES OF BOOK ADVERTISING. 
(To the Editor of The Dial.) 

The questiou of the advertising of books has recently 
become one of interest, through discussion in the liter- 
ary journals, and the opinions and experiences made 
public have been of considerable value. The Dlax has 
expressed itself soimdly on the subject, especially in 
the issue of December 1. 

It occurs to me that the consideration of the general 
question of the proper methods to be followed in the 
advertising of books has not been placed upon a foun- 
dation as broad as it may profitably be placed. The 
Dial asks this question: " Do the principles that apply 
to the advertising of shoes apply also to the advertising 
of books? " If the question had been, Are the methods 
that are foimd effective in the advertising of shoes 
adequate for the advertising of books? there would be 
no groimd for an argument dissenting from the proposi- 
tions laid down in The Dial article; or, at least, the 
intelligent reader would have recognized the logical 
force of the concliLsions drawn from such a premise. 
But the principles that xmderlie advertising apply with 
equal force to all advertising, whether of shoes or of 
books. It is because the discussion of advertising does 
not, in this case and usiuilly, consider principles that 
confusion often residts. The student of advertising 
recognizes the fact that it is the confusion of principles 
with methods that leads to nearly all the differences of 
opinion existing with respect to advertising, is at the 
bottom of mixch of the futile discussion, and is respon- 
sible for the differing views expressed by those who 
have recently written upon the subject. The failure to 
discriminate between principles and methods accounts 
also for a majority of the failures in advertising, and 
for a large proportion of the improfitable margins 
recognized as the residt of even what are known to be 
on the whole successfiU campaigns. 

While it is an old shibboleth of advertisers that there 
are no well-defined principles underlying advertising, 
considered scientifically, it is beginning to be recognized 
that that shibboleth is merely an expression of ignor- 
ance rather than a demonstrable proposition. It is 
quite true that as yet there has been no definitive and 
authoritative formulation of the principles that tmder- 
lie advertising, but there is steadily accumidating a 
mass of material which will soon make such formula- 
tion possible. To those students of the question who 
have carefully followed the work of the psychologists 
in several of the American, English, German, and 



French imiversities, it is already evident that enough 
has been uncovered relative to the workings of the 
human mind to form a basis for at least an intelligent 
discussion of what those principles are, and to indicate 
with some degree of certainty the chief lines upon 
which a fundamental credo of advertising must be con- 
structed. 

It is in the nature of a fascinating recreation to ex- 
amine the work of the professors of psychology, for the 
purpose of discovering therein those habits and tenden- 
cies of the mind that may be appealed to by adver- 
tising, and which may be relied upon to come into some 
degree of activity when the sympathetic suggestion 
arouses them. As it would be too long a process care- 
fully to indicate what has been established bearing upon 
this advertising problem, in this brief note, may I be 
allowed to affirm that the work of the psychologists, as 
revealed in the printed reports of several vmiversities 
and in their writings, suggests to me that all advertising 
depends for its power upon three broad qualities, which 
may be defined as attraction, suggestion, and assertion. 
The quality of attraction must arrest the eye of a reader 
who may not be conscious of any desire to read the 
advertisement; the quality of suggestion must come 
into play the instant the eye is arrested, and carry the 
reader's attention along the line of sequence to the 
assertion, which is the final vital element of the adver- 
tisement — the argument and appeal which furnishes to 
the reader the purchasing motive. The effective adver- 
tisement must attract the eye, suggest something by its 
most obvious printed expression, and assert the full force 
of its argimient by that to which its attractive and sug- 
gestive elements induce attention. 

This progressive influence of the advertisement has 
been pretty well established by the experiments and in- 
vestigations of the psychologists. It is easy to conceive 
that there are many members going to the composition 
of each of these elements. That of attraction, for ex- 
ample, involves some most interesting new facts that 
have been recently discovered in optics; or, more ex- 
actly, in relation to the action and capacity of the eye 
in the act of reading. Certain forms of type are more 
willingly noted by the eye than other forms. A cer- 
tain nimiber of printed letters is taken cognizance of at 
one " fixation " of the eye — one glance, or without a 
movement to bring other groups into focus. Lines 
within certain definite limits of length are easily read, 
while those that are longer subject the eye to a strain 
that it resents. The form of the advertisement, con- 
sidered as an object intended to please and attract, 
must be in accord with the artistic principles of compo- 
sition — balance, proportion, harmony, color, etc. The 
psychological elements of the two remaining qualities 
of the advertisement — suggestion and assertion — are 
more complex and varied, and would require much space 
to state them. They are of more final importance than 
those psychological elements I have named as being 
inherent in the advertising quality of attraction, and 
therefore may make a more emphatic appeal for the 
attention of the student. 

I think it will appear evident to any one who gives 
the matter thought that the principles affecting adver- 
tising are universal in their application, equally oper- 
ative in shoe advertising and book advertising. The 
methods of applying these principles differ. It is too 
often the fact that no attention is given to the prin- 
ciples, and none too much to the methods. The trouble 
with much current book advertising is that it seeks to 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 1, 



appeal to people who are not interested in books. The 
merchandising of books is a problem by itself. Once a 
year — at the holiday season - — books are sold as mer- 
chandise. The stress of the requirements of the season 
drives many people to the book-counter, where they 
buy books for presents, with little thought or concern 
for the literary contents. At other times books are sold 
as literature, and there is nothing to justify advertising- 
attempts to sell them on other gromids. How to reach 
the small proportion of book-buyers existing in the 
mass of the people, is the problem the publisher has to 
consider. It is a question of method, not of principle. 

I think that it must be admitted that the relative 
proportion of book-buyers has steadily increased since 
progressive publishers began the policy of advertising 
in mediiuns having general circulations, such as the 
better class of newspapers. It is certam that there are 
potential book-buyers, many of them, among newspaper 
readers. It is not my belief that the publishers who 
have done good general advertising have suffered there- 
for. In looking the field over, without special prepara- 
tion, it seems apparent that nearly all of the large 
publishing houses — those supposed to be financially 
strong, and successful with their books — are liberal 
users of advertising space in the better newspapers. 

The reason for the inefficiency of book advertising, 
if it is more inefficient than other advertising, does not 
seem to me to lie in the choice of mediums so much as 
in the methods employed ui preparing the advertising. 
The great bvdk of book advertising appeals only to 
such resolute buyers as are determined to seek out 
books to minister to their developed and acknowledged 
literary appetites. It is not calculated either to create 
a literary taste or to arouse a dormant literary appetite. 
And, after all, the object of book advertising is to pro- 
mote the sale of books, not merely to notify book lovers 
where they can obtain satisfaction. Gforgj. French. 

Boston, Mass., December 20, 1905. 



Messrs. A. C. McClurg & Co. announce that they 
have just completed arrangements with The University 
Press of Cambridge, Mass., for the publication, in con- 
jmietion with Mr. John Murray of London, of a work 
of more than ordinary interest. This is Molmenti's 
"Venice: Its Individual Growth from the Earliest 
Beginnings to the Fall of the Republic," now appear- 
ing in Italy under the imprint of the Instituto Italian© 
d'Arti Graflchi. The author, Signor Pompeo Molmen- 
ti, a senator at Rome, is a gentlemen of high social 
standing, and the leadmg historical writer in Italy at 
the present time. The translator is to be Mr. Horatio 
F. Brown, liimself an authority on Venice, whose books 
on that city, and the distinguished position he has held 
there for nearly twenty years as " British Archivist," 
have won for him the reputation of knowing more 
about Venice than any other living Englishman. The 
work will be issued in three sections of two volumes 
each, the first entitled " Venice in the Middle Ages," 
the second "Venice in the Golden Age," and the 
tliird "The Decadence of Venice." Each volimie 
will contain forty full-page plates and a frontispiece 
in full color printed in Italy. The volumes will be 
distinguished typographically by being printed in the 
beautiful Italian type cut by Bodoni, which the Uni- 
versity Press has just revived. Besides the library edi- 
tion, there will be an edition on Italian handmade paper, 
with the illustrations printed on Japanese vellum. 



^t ieto io0ks. 



CHARL.es liAMB'S IjATEST BIOGRAPHER.* 

To have at last a fiill portrayal by a loving 
liand of " the most lovable figure in English 
literature " is cause for no small congratulation. 
Mr. Edward V. Lucas's eleven hundred octavo 
pages, with their many portraits and other illus- 
trations, give not only an elaborate life of Lamb, 
but an almost equally detailed account of his 
alter ego, Mary Lamb, and very full sketches 
of the friends with whom he talked and walked, 
drank a convivial glass, and cracked a harmless 
joke. 

That the biography is constructed after the 
most modern methods, as compared with Tal- 
fourd's, Barry Cornwall's, and aU previous 
lives of Lamb, its very length and general 
appearance sufficiently indicate. The care and 
skill with which references to persons and places 
have been hunted down, and all available sources 
of information explored, become increasingly 
manifest as one turns the pages and notes the 
frequency and fidness of quoted matter. In a 
final and authoritative life, to accompany the 
same author's scholarly edition of Lamb's works, 
this is as it shovdd be, although the man of little 
leisure might prefer a shorter, more fluently 
narrative treatment of the theme, with fewer 
insertions of autobiogTaphic matter from the 
easily accessible Letters and Essays. In other 
words, as Mr. Lucas lias shown himself to be 
the ideal editor and annotator in his recently- 
published seven- volume edition of Lamb's works^ 
so here he demonstrates his unequalled qualifica- 
tions as a compiler of all discoverable material 
bearing on the life-history of his chosen author. 
The method adopted was the best for the pur- 
pose in view; and as the chief charm of aU 
previous accounts of the inimitable Elia has 
been due to the more or less of seK-portrayal 
introduced into their pages, so here again the 
chapters that most delight are those wherein 
Lamb himself lias been allowed, with least of 
editorial assistance, to tell his own story. To 
Mary Lamb also, to Crabb Kobinson, Leigh 
Hunt, the Cowden Clarkes, Hazlitt, Coleridge, 
De Quincey, N. P. WiUis, John WUson, and 
countless other contemporaries of Lamb, we ai-e 
made debtors for a touch here and a stroke 
there toward the completion of the fidl-length 
portrait. Letters hitherto imavailable for such 
uses have been drawn upon for still further 

* The Life op Charles Lamb. By E. V. Lucas. In two 
volumes. Illustrated. New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



finLshing touches to this careful likeness, and 
the final uupi*ession is one of unsurpassable com- 
pleteness. Not that other and shorter studies, 
like those of Canon Ainger and Mr. Percy Fitz- 
gerald. vnH henceforth be superfluous ; but the 
prosecution of research can hardly be carried 
beyond the point now reached, nor is it likely 
to be attempted. 

Without too much poking about in the gene- 
alogical dustbins, the biographer introduces us 
briefly and plea-santlj- to honest John Lamb 
and his little fanuly at No. 2 Cro\s-n Office Row, 
and to the excellent Samuel Salt. Bencher of 
the Inner Temple, to whom the elder Lamb 
acted as assistant and servant. All that relates 
to Charles Lamb's education at Christ's Hos- 
pital is of course faithfully reproduced from the 
Letters and the Essays, with additional inform- 
ation from various sources. To show with what 
painstaking devotion to detad the biographer 
has executed his task, let us call attention to the 
table (an en\'iably long one) of holidays which 
the blue-coat boys enjoyed a century and a 
quarter ago, and which ]VIr. Lucas sets down in 
chronological order to give the reader a realiz- 
ing sense of the frequency with which our little 
pupd from the Temple must have trotted back 
and forth 'tvs-ixt parent and pedagogue. Sun- 
dry bits of information, even as to the hebdom- 
adal bill of fare and the hours of bedgoing and 
uprising, ai-e gleaned from Coleridge and Leigh 
Hunt, themselves likewise wearers of the blue 
coat. Another noteworthy Christ's-Hospitaller 
was Charles Valentine Le Grice, a vnt and 
punster dear to Lamb's heart, who at Tal- 
fourd's request wrote out some reminiscences of 
his famous schooKeUow. A passage from his 
pen is worth requoting here as recalling some 
of the jjecvdiar circmnstances that helped to de- 
termine Charles Lamb's character. 

" Lamb was an amiable, gentle boy, very sensible 
and keenly observing, indulged by his schoolfellows and 
by his master on account of his infirmity of speech. His 
countenance was mild ; his complexion clear brown, with 
an expression which might lead you to think that he 
was of Jewish descent. His eyes were not each of the 
same colour, one was hazel, the other had specks of 
grey in the iris, mingled as we see red spots in the 
blood-stone. His step was plantigrade, which made his 
walk slow and peculiar, adding to the staid appearance 
of his figure. I never heard his name mentioned with- 
out the addition of Charles, although, as there was no 
other boy of the name of Lamb, the addition was un- 
necessary; but there was an implied kindness in it, and 
it was a proof that his gentle maimers excited that 
kindness. His delicate frame and his difficulty- of ut- 
terance, which was increased by agitation, unfitted him 
for joining in any boisterous sport. The description which 
he gives, in his ' Recollections of Christ's Hospital,' of 



the habits and feelings of the schoolboy, is a true one 
in general, but is more particularly a delineation of him- 
self — the feelings were all in his own heart — the por- 
trait was his own: ' While others were all fire and play, 
he stole along with all the self -concentration of a young 
monk.' These habits and feelings were awakened and 
cherished in him by peculiar circumstances: he had 
been bom and bred in the Inner Temple; and his pa- 
rents continued to reside there while he was at school, 
so that he passed from cloister to cloister, and this was 
all the change his young mind ever knew." 

On the subject of Lamb's romantic passion 

for " Alice W " Mr. Luca.s offers the fol- 

lo^^ing: 

" To come back to Lamb, whom we left on February 
8, 1792, laying down his pen in the Examiner's office 
at the South-Sea House for the last time and returning 
home with his earnings. Whether or not he had heard 
of the opening for him at the East India House, I can- 
not say; but he did not enter that company's employ 
until April oth, two months later. To this we come 
shortly. At the present moment there is a more roman- 
tic topic for consideration, for my impression is that Lamb 
filled part at least of the interval by visiting his grand- 
mother, and at the same time began to cherish affection 
for the girl whom he afterward called Alice W — , but 
who is thought to have been Ann Simmons of Blenheims, 
near Blakesware. My reasons for believing this to be 
the case are, (1) that on April 5, 1792, he passed into 
harness from which he never escaped, except for annua l 
holidays — at first, probably, very brief ones — or single 
days when he could not have reached Widford; and (2) 
that Mrs. Field died in August, 1792, thus closing 
Blakesware to her grandchildren. We have no knowl- 
edge of any other friends with whom Lamb could have 
stayed after her death, while it is hardly likely that so 
yoimg a clerk could have afforded to stay at Mr. Clem- 
itson's inn at Widford, except very occasionally." 

A phase of Lamb's inner self that is seldom 
dwelt upon has to do with his religious or more 
properly his theological beliefs, so far as he had 
any fixed belief. In later life, as his biographer 
remarks, his religion ceased to be articulate and 
became merged in conduct ; " but in his twenty- 
first year his interest in Priestley and his L^ni- 
tarian and fatalistic creed was intense," writes 
Mr. Lucas ; and still further : "To the end, I 
think, although this point is a little vague. Lamb 
remained nominally a Lnitarian, a profession of 
faith to which probably he was first led by his 
Aimt Hetty (a constant attendant at the Essex 
Street chapel) , and in which he was fortified by 
Coleridge." In one of Lamb's earlier letters to 
Coleridge he writes : •• I have seen Priestley. I 
love to see his name repeated in your writings. 
I love and honour him almost profanely." 

The tragical event of Lamb's young manhood 
receives of course fidl treatment. But in spite 
of calamity and grief one must push on and fid- 
fill one's destiny ; and Lamb's destiny, as we 
are assured, was to \*Tite. In the November fol- 
lowing that awful 21st September, 1796, hLs 



8 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 1, 



interest in writing had revived, and he sent to 
Coleridge the fragments of verse that he wished 
to have printed with his friend's poems and dedi- 
cated to his sister. Thenceforward he turned 
more and more to authorship for solace. As to 
the adoption of the famous and often mispro- 
notmced pseudonym, a letter from Lamb to John 
Taylor the publisher, written in July, 1821, con- 
tains the following pertinent passage : 

" Having a brother now there [at the South-Sea 
House] , and doubtuig how he might relish certain de- 
scriptions in it [the essay on the South-Sea House] , I 
clapt down the name of Elia to it, which passed ofP 
pretty well, for Elia himself added the function of an 
author to that of a scrivener, like myself. ... I went 
the other day (not having seen him for a year) to laugh 
over with him at my usurpation of his name, and fomid 
him, alas! no more than a name, for he died of con- 
sumption eleven months ago, and I knew not of it. So 
the name has fairly devolved to me, I think; and 'tis 
all he has left me." 

In the adoption of a pseudonym Mr. Lucas 
finds a possible explanation of " the difference 
between the comparative thinness of Lamb's 
pre-Elian writings and the Elian richness and 
colour." For, he adds, " there are some writers 
(paradoxical though it seems) who can never 
express themselves so freely as when, adopting 
a dramatic standpoint, they affect to be some 
one else." And a similarity in this respect is 
traced between Goldsmith and Lamb. In both 
writers the innocent imposture served to fortify 
a feeble courage and overcome a natural diffi- 
dence. Before dropping this subject, it is inter- 
esting to note a remark once made by Lamb 
himself, that "Elia" forms an anagram of "a lie." 

Among matters of not the first importance, 
the whole story of Coleridge's quarrel with 
Lloyd, in which Lamb was somewhat involved, 
and which has already been related in Mr. 
Lucas's "Charles Lamb and the Lloyds," is 
rather tiresomely repeated here. Yet it need 
not be regarded as a total waste of printer's ink, 
so sweetly unquarrelsome by natural tempera- 
ment does Lamb appear through it all. Even 
Scotchmen, with whom he professes to entertain 
" imperfect sympathies," he cannot roundly vitu- 
perate when he tries. Contrast Carlyle's \m- 
fortunate characterization of Lamb, harshly 
abusive and opulent in epithet, with these gentle 
strictures from Elia's pen on Carlyle's country- 
men: 

" I have been trying all my life to like Scotchmen, 
and am obliged to desist from the experiment in despair. 
They cannot like me — and, in truth, I never knew one 
of that nation who attempted to do it. . . . The bram 
of a true Caledonian (if I am not mistaken) is consti- 
tuted upon quite a different plan. His Minerva is born 
in panoply. You are never admitted to see his ideas in 



their growth — if, indeed, they do grow, and are not 
rather put together upon pruiciples of clockwork. You 
never catch his mmd in an imdress. He never hints or 
suggests anything, but imlades his stock of ideas in per- 
fect order and completeness. . . . His imderstanding is 
always at its meridian — you never see the first dawn, 
the early streaks. — He has no faltermgs of self- 
suspicion." 

From some recollections of Lamb by Mr. 
J. Fuller-Robinson, published forty years ago 
in "The Guardian," we quote the following as 
given in Mr. Lucas's pages : 

" I was admitted into a small and pleasantly shaded 
parlour. The modest room was himg romid with fine 
engravings by Hogarth, in dark frames. Books and 
magazines were scattered on the table, and on the old- 
fashioned window-seat. I chatted awhile with Miss 
Lamb — a meek, intelligent, very pleasant, and rather 
deaf, elderly lady. . . . ' Elia ' came in soon after — a 
short, thin man. His dress was black — a capacious 
coat, knee-breeches, and gaiters, and he wore a white 
neck-handkerchief. His head was remarkably fine, and 
his dark and shaggy hair and eyebrows, heated face, and 
very piercing jet-black eyes gave to liis appearance a 
singularly wild and striking expression. The sketch of 
him in Eraser's Magazine gives a true idea of his figure, 
but no portrait, I am sure, coidd do justice to his 
splendid coimtenance. He grasped me cordially by the 
hand, sat down, and taking a bottle from a cupboard 
behind him, mixed some rum-and-water. On another 
occasion, his sister objected to this operation, and he 
refrained. Presently after, he said, ' May I have a little 
drop now, only a leetle drop ? ' ' No, be a good boy.' 
At last he prevailed, and took his draught." 

And so on, with much more that is well worth 
picturing out before one's mind's eye. 

Like so many of liis comitrymen. Lamb won 
popularity in America before he had become 
popidar in England. His " Essays of Elia " had 
little vogue among English readers until long 
after the writer's death, whereas in America, as 
Mr. Lucas says, they so pleased the public on 
their first appearance here in 1828 that the pub- 
lishers, Carey, Lea and Carey, of Philadelphia, 
hastened to issue a second series of their own 
compiling, wherein they generously included, 
along with selections from Lamb, three essays 
from the pens of Allan Cunningham and Barry 
Cornwall. N. P. Willis, in talking with Lamb 
in 1834, found that this American success had 
gratified the English essayist not a little, and 
that he was well pleased with the Second Series, 
despite the error in its compilation. 

The modest and judicious suppression of self 
which Mr. Lucas has exercised in the accom- 
plishment of his task is deserving of praise. 
The fitting word is supplied at need, but he 
has wisely refrained from emulatmg those long- 
winded orators who make their introduction of 
a \asiting celebrity the occasion for seK-display. 
The four "Appendices," on the "Portraits 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



of Lamb," ''Lamb's Commonplace Books," 
" Lamb's Books." and •• John Lamb's ' Poet- 
ical Pieces,' " are full of interest ; but of equal 
value viith anv of these, and more valuable than 
the last, woidd have been a Lamb bibliography, 
especially since neither the preface nor the body 
of the book makes perfectly clear exactly what 
and how much new material has been dra\*Ti 
upon in the present work. 

A few slight eiTors of execution, amid so much 
excellence of design, may be noted for correc- 
tion in a second edition. "The late Mrs. Coe, 
bom Elizaljeth Himt of Widford." and '• Mrs. 
Augustus DeMorgan, bom Sophia Frend," 
atti-act attention as examples of extraordinary 
parental pre\'ision. Uncertainty as to sex. if no 
other reason, commonly acts as a hindrance to 
the pre-natal christening of offspring. " Few 
journalists but he " grates on the grammatical 
ear. The first page of Appendix II. tells us 
that " the best of all Lamb's commonplace books 
has been printed — the Specimens of English 
Dramatic Poets ' ; but the very next page de- 
clares on the other hand that " the best of Lamb's 
commonplace books Ls the large-paper copy of 
Holcrofts Travels." A curious instance of mis- 
eopjTng or misprinting, whereby the exact oppo- 
site of the intended sense is conveyed, occurs 
in a passage from a letter to Wordsworth de- 
scriptive of the guileless and lovable George 
Dyer. " But with envy, they [the gods] excited 
curiosity also. " is what we read. The original 
letter, as edited by W. Carew Hazlitt, has 
*' excided " instead of " excited." Other slips 
are met \^'ith, probably mere typographical 
errors for the most part. The index to this 
work is unusually exhaustive, filling fifty-eight 
closely-printed double-column pages, and the 
illustrations are of more than passing interest. 
Percy F. Bicknell. 



EuROPEAX Diplomacy ix its 
BEGrvxryGS.* 



The raison d'etre of Dr. Hill's "History 
of Diplomacy,*' as given by the author in his 
preface, is that, although special questions and 
particular periods of diplomatic history have 
been ably presentetl, no general history of Eu- 
ropean diplomacy exists in any language. At 
the outset the author was confronted with two 
practical problems of no small moment. The 

•a History of Diplomacy ix the iNTEBXATioNAr Dbvbl- 
OPMBNT OF EuKOPE. By David Jayne Hill, LL.D. Volnine I., 
The Struggle for Universal Empire. Xew York : Longmana, 
Green, & Co. 



first arose out of the vast field of research pre- 
sented by the archives now at the command of 
the investigator. The second was to determine 
the proper point of departure. Dr. Hill cannot 
accept the Peace of AVestphalia as the starting 
point of diplomacy, but rather it must be re- 
garded as the result of long preparation. 

Accepting this view. Dr. Hill begins his story 
with a description of the organization of Europe 
under the old Roman Empire. The system of 
government is described at some length because 
it furnished the model for the organization of 
the church, which was the next power to aim at 
universality. Even amid all the confusion of 
the Barbarian invasions this idea of universal 
empire never lost its hold upon the imagination 
of thinking men. The significance of the so- 
caUed fall of the empire (476 A. D.) lies in this, 
" that it serves to fix in the mind the substitution 
of local and racial authority in western Europe 
in place of the waning influence of universal 
imperial rule." It separates the period of the 
old Empire from that long period of change and 
effort to secure order through the organization 
of the Barbarian kingdoms, the revived Empire, 
feudalism, the influence of the church, which 
finally resulted in the great national states of 
modem times. 

One of the most interesting studies in Euro- 
pean history is the birth of the modem states 
and their realization of nationality through a 
slow and painful process. The idea of universal 
empire had so dominated the world that the new 
idea had a desperate fight for existence. The 
old idea did not perish in a day, with the fall 
of Rome ; for some time longer the West felt 
itscK a part of the Empire which centered about 
Byzantium. To be outside the Empire was to 
be outside the pale of civilization. With such 
unity there could be no real field for diplomacy. 
But gradually the feeling of real unit}* became 
less strong. The East looked down upon the 
West as barbarian, and religious differences be- 
came more and more accentuated. The head- 
ship of Rome in religion was now asserted, and 
the Pope claimed the supremacy for himseK 
over all the orthodox West, and at times even 
asserted it over the Arian heretics of the East. 

But even this claim was not put forth in its 
entirety all at once. It arose somewhat gradu- 
ally from the actual condition of things. For a 
time the Pope remained at least the nominal 
subject of the eastern Empire, but soon became 
the only effective authority in Italy. Finally, 
when Leo III. put his ban upon image worship 
in Rome, opposition broke out into open rebel- 



10 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 1, 



lion. Papal diplomacy now had its birth in the 
policy of Gregory II., who wished neither to 
destroy the Lombard power, when Liutprand 
was seeking to unite Italy in one kingdom, nor 
to annihilate the influence of the Emperor, but 
rather to increase his own prestige by playing 
off the one against the other. As the interest 
and power of the eastern Emperor decreased in 
the west a substitute had to be provided to check 
the Lombards, and this Gregory III. found in 
Pepin, King of the Franks. This marks the 
first instance of interference in Italian affairs by 
a northern j^rince, — a practice followed there- 
after for centuries, to the detriment of both 
nations. The Pope was seeking to establish his 
own temporal rule in Italy, and in so doing in- 
augurated a policy wliich was a strong barrier to 
national growth. It was not until more than 
half a century after the last of the phantom 
emperors that Germany and Italy realized na- 
tional unity. 

The usurpation of the imperial chair by a 
woman, Irene, gave a fitting opportunity to 
revive the empire in the west. Disorder had 
become chronic in Italy. In the hope of secur- 
ing a power capable of curing this, the Pope 
crowned Charlemagne on Christmas day, 800, 
and invested him with the diadem of the Caesars, 
only it was now the " Holy Roman Empire." 
But herein were sown the seeds of a long and 
bitter contest, — the struggle for supremacy be- 
tween the Empire and the Papacy. Should the 
Popes be allowed to make and unmake tem- 
poral riders, or shoidd they be subject to the civil 
power ? Along with this went the great ques- 
tion as to whether the world empire should live 
again, or whether great states shoidd develop 
along national lines. 

One thing which boded weU for the growth 
of nationalities was the custom of dividing king- 
doms by inheritance, like so much real estate. 
After the death of Charlemagne his great em- 
pire was divided up. After a contest among 
his heirs, diplomacy was called into play, and 
an arrangement effected at Verdim which Dr. 
Hill thinks " the most important international 
document ever written " in its influence upon 
European history. On the west was a territory 
of tolerable geographic and ethnic imity which 
was soon to develop into the powerful state of 
France ; on the east the territory of the later 
Germany. In between, the kingdom of the 
Emperor Lothaire stretched from HoUand to 
Rome, possessing neither ethnic nor geographic 
unity. Upon the death of Lothaire his imcles 
of the east and west di\'ided up his inheritance 



and began to court the favor of the Pope for 
the imperial dignity. 

It is not to be presumed that Rome was an 
indifferent spectator to these struggles. Even 
her own citizens were divided, some contending 
for the civic freedom of the city, others for the 
supremacy of the Pope, and still others for the 
supremacy of the Emperor. As a result, Italy 
was the scene of disorder after the coronation of 
Charles the Bold. There the conflict of author- 
ity was sharpest. The whole story of Italian 
politics was smnmed up in an epigTam by the 
Bishop of Cremona, — " The Italians always 
wish to have two masters, in order to hold each 
of them in check by the other." In attempting 
to follow this principle for the conservation of 
its o^vn power, the papacy sometimes gained, but 
often fell a victim to the general anarchy. 

Passing over the greater part of this struggle, 
it is interesting to come to the appearance of 
Venice on the scene as practically marking the 
birth of modem diplomacy. There, in May, 
11 7 7, met " the first European congress in which 
independent civic conunimities had ever freely 
represented their own rights in the presence of 
princes — the prototype of the great interna- 
tional congresses of a later time." Venice was 
careful to select men of eminent qualification to 
represent her interests, to instruct them in the 
arts of diplomacy, and consequently soon be- 
came " the school and touchstone of ambassa- 
dors." Secrecy and urbanity were the cardinal 
principles of Venetian diplomacy, and this sys- 
tem was soon to be put in practice by all the 
Italian states, the numerous city-states so het- 
erogeneous in character and inspired by motives 
so diverse. Each city within itself was the seat 
of intrigue, owing to the mutually hostile ele- 
ments of tradesmen, artisans, the official aris- 
tocracy, and the feudal nobles whose swords 
threatened the population in the streets. The 
espionage and intrigue of partisans within the 
city were extended to the relations with neigh- 
boring cities. " To know the intentions of one's 
neighbor, to defeat his hostile designs, to form 
alliances with his enemies, to steal away his 
friends, and to prevent his union with others, 
became matters of the highest public interest. 
Less costly than war, diplomacy now, in large 
measure, superseded it with plot and counter- 
plot." And when these failed, the foreigner was 
called in to increase the general complication. 

Out of this system was born the conception 
of " equilibrium " as a necessity of defense. The 
transitory alliances and counter-alliances of the 
Italian princes and republics give us the real 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



11 



" prototype and epitome of what all Europe was 
soon to become upon a g^rander scale." The 
natural correlate of all this would have been a 
code of public law to reg^ulate the intercourse of 
these states with each other, but such a thing 
was not vet possible. The moral sense did not 
demand it. but its birth was witnessed on the 
sea, where the demands of commerce made it 
imperative. The customs of the sea were re- 
duced to ^vriting in the " Tables of Amalfi," 
which later gave place to the " Consolato de 
]Mare*' — the "first example of law international 
among the nations of Europe." 

Such in its larger outlines is the story Dr. 
Hill has told in his first voltune. In reality it 
contains a great deal of matter which has only 
a very remote connection with diplomacy. If 
it were really new, it might be justified as neces- 
sary to a proper understanding of the main 
theme, but a great deal of it is not new. and 
indee<l may be found in the ordinary text-books 
on European history. Despite the formidable 
array of sources and authorities cited at the end 
of each chapter, the work does not impress one 
as making any really noteworthy contribution to 
historical knowledge. It is valuable, however, 
for bringing into one view the larger facts of 
the period treated, and emphasizing their influ- 
ence upon the gro^^-th of national states. Much 
may be expected of the succeeding volvmies, 
which will deal with a period when diplomacy 
was coming into its own. 

David Y. Thomas. 



The Dotex of Exglish Xaturax-ists. * 



The Victorian age, whatever its shortcomings, 
will always be remembered for the brilliancy of 
its scientific achievements. ^NTiat the twentieth 
centiuy* may have in store for us. it is too early 
to predict ; but it is difficult to believe that any- 
thing \^-ill be accomplished more important for 
intellectual progi-ess than the establishment of 
the doctrine of evolution on a scientific basis. 
This great work is justly credited to Darwin, 
but with his name must always be linked that 
of Wallace, who independently thought out the 
theory on which Dar\s-in's work is based. 

Dr. Wallace occupies a unique position among 
scientific men. Bom in 1823, he has not only 
\N-itnessed great changes in scientific opinion, 
but has had a large share in bringing them 
alx)ut. Living most of his life in comparative 

•My Life. A Record of Events and Opinions. By Alfred 
Rossel Wallace. In two TOlames. Dlostrated. New York: 
Dodd. Mead &. Co. 



isolation, and never being tied down as many 
men are by professional or official custom and 
etiquette, he has always been recognized as an 
independent. Orthodoxy is not peculiar to the 
church ; it is a tendency common to all organi- 
zations, and in a large measure necessary for 
their continuance. At the same time, it is a 
perpetual obstacle to progress, and the hetero- 
dox are the true prophets of the dawn. Dr. 
Wallace has lived to see part of his once hetero- 
dox opinions become orthodox, while others are 
still rejected by the majority as unworthy of 
consideration. Consequently, to the ordinary 
" well-behaved " scientist, he seems to be a sort 
of double personality, a mixture of genius and 
absurdity. 

In the case of any man of great intellectual 
power, it is not to be expected that all his opin- 
ions will be justified by subsequent knowledge. 
Darwin was undoubtedly in error in respect to 
certain matters ; and presumably the same will 
have to be said of Wallace. But this should 
not blind us for a moment to the immense 
service performed, or should we hastily assume 
that the opinion of the day is correct. I recall 
a little matter which well illustrates Dr. Wal- 
lace's power of reasoning, and at the same time 
the shortsightedness of naturalists. Some fif- 
teen years ago there was in preparation a new 
edition of " Island Life," in which Dr. Wallace 
discussed the animals of the British Islands, 
and argued that there ought to be some species 
and varieties peculiar to Britain. Lists of sup- 
posed peculiar forms were prepared, but zoolo- 
gists and botanists were alike skeptical. Some 
were " probably not distinct," others " would 
certainly be found on the continent." The 
general attitude was one of incredulity or even 
contempt. Since that time, however, particular 
groups have been studied much more carefully 
than ever before (follo\*'ing the methods intro- 
duced by certain American naturalists), and 
although it is true that some of the kinds for- 
merly listed must be stricken out, a whole series 
of insular forms has been detected among the 
mammals, which were supposed to be *• perfectiy 
known " ! Only last year, even, a very distinct 
new species of mouse was recorded. Dr. Wal- 
lace has thus been justified beyond his expecta- 
tions, and when the same careful methods are 
applied to the whole of the British fauna and 
flora, the results \*'ill no doubt be such as would 
make the orthodox nineteenth-century natural- 
ist stare. 

I refer to this matter, because I have some 
personal knowledge of it, and because it shows 



12 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 1, 



how facts which are perfectly evident when 
brought to light, may remain undiscovered be- 
neath our very noses. 

Probably the most objectionable of Dr. Wal- 
lace's opinions, in the eyes of orthodox science, 
are those relative to spirtualism. Without 
knowing anything particular about the matter, 
most people will exhaust their language of abuse 
upon this subject. Those scientific men who 
reject the whole body of evidence are proclaimed 
as sound of mind, though their methods of re- 
search may have been such as woidd be called 
ridicidous if applied to any other subject. Those 
who become convinced that there is something 
not explained by known " laws of nature " are 
held to have " a screw loose somewhere," though 
they may be known masters in research, such as 
Crookes, Oliver Lodge, William James, and 
Wallace. It is perfectly evident, and thor- 
oughly recognized by all those who have given 
much attention to the matter, that the laws gov- 
erning spiritual existence cannot at present be 
defined. It is held that the " supernatural " is 
as " natural " as anything else, but it is con- 
fessedly difficidt to comprehend. Some day, 
perhaps, there wiU arise a Darwin of spiritual- 
ism, who wiU put the whole subject on an intel- 
ligible basis ; and then it will be seen that we 
were groping in the dark before like the pre- 
Darwinian evolutionists. 

It will be clear to the reader that the life of 
such a man as Wallace cannot fail to be of sur- 
passing interest. Like Herbert Spencer, he has 
chosen to present it to us in considerable detail, 
and with absolute frankness. In it, we trace the 
development of generalizations from apparently 
trivial beginnings, and are presented with a pic- 
ture of past times, which seem now so remote as 
to be almost prehistoric. There is a good deal 
of matter in the book which does not strike one 
as being particularly valuable or important ; 
but on the other hand, the variety of subjects 
discussed, and the wide human interests of the 
author, cause it to appeal to a far larger circle 
than the usual biography of a man engaged in 
the investigation of technical matters. The 
splendid courage and honesty exhibited cannot 
fail to be inspiring, even to those who do not 
agree with the views advocated. They teach a 
lesson which is sorely needed by the present 
generation, with its altogether too slavish sub- 
servience to the powers that be. It is interest- 
ing to find that with aU this, there went a shy- 
ness and timidity in the presence of others, 
which was never quite overcome. In discuss- 
ing certain humiliating and Ul-suited pvmish- 



ments of childhood, attention is called to the 
right of each individual to have his personality 
respected, even in blame. It is remarked that 
this is far better recognized in China and Japan 
than with us. 

" With them this principle is taught from childhood, 
and pervades every class of society, while with us it 
was oidy recognized by the higher classes, and by them 
rarely extended to uiferiors or to children. The feeling 
that demands this recognition is certainly strong in 
many children, and those who have suffered imder the 
failure of their elders to respect it, can well appreciate 
the agony of shame endured by the more civilized 
Eastern peoples, whose feelings are so often outraged 
by the total absence of all respect shown them by their 
European masters or conquerors. In thus recognizing 
the sanctity of this deepest of human feelmgs these peo- 
ple manifest a truer phase of civilization than we have 
attained to. Even savages often surpass us in this 
respect." (Vol. 1, p. 62.) 

The author's travels in South America and the 
Malay Archipelago are not described at great 
length, because he long ago published books 
about them. The best part of his South Ameri- 
can collection was lost through the burning of 
the ship on the homeward voyage, of which a 
graphic account is given. Only some drawings 
of palms and fishes were saved ; the latter have 
recently been examined by a specialist, and it 
turns out that many of the species have never 
been obtained again to this day. A short chap- 
ter is devoted to the memory of H. E. Wallace, 
a brother of Dr. Wallace, who went out to Brazil 
to assist him in his work, and died of yellow 
fever at Para. Herbert Wallace was not a nat- 
uralist, but was very fond of writing verse, and 
several of his productions are printed. In one 
of them we fuid the lines : 

" For here upon the Amazon 
The dread mosquito bites — 
Inflames the blood with fever," etc. 

At that time, of course, it was wholly unknown 
that the mosquito carried the germ of yellow 
fever ; but these lines seem curiously prophetic. 

The journey to the Malay region was more 
successftd from every point of view. The mate- 
rials obtained were enormous, including almost 
inmunerable new species. Some of the insects 
have not been described yet, from the lack of 
specialists to study them. 

Although Darwin and Wallace might have 
been considered rivals, the fact that they had 
independently worked out the same theory never 
led to anything but warm friendship between 
them. Each always tried to give the f idlest 
credit to the other, and Wallace called his book 
on the theory of evolution " Darwinism." Stress 
has sometimes been laid on the fact that Wallace 
disagreed with Darwin about several matters; 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



13 



these are discussed fully in the Life, but it is 
shown that they were insignificant in compari- 
son with the great and fundamental agreement. 
Darwin's last letter to Dr. Wallace is given, 
and the latter adds this interesting comment : 

" This letter is to me, perhaps, the most interesting 
I eyer received from Darwin, since it shows that it was 
only the engrossing interests of his scientific and liter- 
ary work, performed under the drawback of almost 
constant ill-health, that prevented him from taking a 
more active part in the discussion of those social and 
political questions that so deeply affect the lives and 
happiness of the great bulk of the people. It is a great 
satisfaction that his last letter to me, written within 
nine months of his death, and terminating a correspond- 
ence which had extended over a quarter of a century, 
should be so cordial, so sympathetic, and broad-minded." 
(Vol. 2, p. 15.) 

In 1886-7 Dr. Wallace ^^sited America, 
travelling from the Atlantic to the Pacific. He 
gives a fiUl accovmt of his experiences, with many 
observations on matters biological and sociologi- 
cal. I should like to quote his conclusions at 
some length, but it is impossible in a short no- 
tice. While enthusiastically admiring the gran- 
deur and beauty of the Kocky Movmtains, the 
Calif omian Sierras, and other regions, and fully 
appreciating the good qualities of America and 
Americans, he deplores the spread of sordid com- 
mercialism, and the way in which man has in so 
many places destroyed the beauty of nature. 
The same is true in England, he says : " Both 
countries are creating ugliness, both are de- 
stroying beauty ; but in America it is done on a 
larger scale and with a more hideous monotony " 
(p. 193.) 

The book is well illustrated ; but one cannot 
help wishing that instead of some of the plates 
which have little to do with the narrative, or 
little intrinsic value, we could have been favoretl 
with portraits of some of the great naturalists 
with whom the author was associated. — such, 
for instance, as Bates and Spruce. 

T. D. A. COCKERELL. 



STrrWES IX Frexc H Literatltue.* 

The agreeable and informing essays that 
make up Mr. Gosse's recent volume of •• French 
Profiles "" are not new. Most of them have 
appeared in print before, and some of them date 
back nearly twenty years. But readers of Mr. 
Gosse's other books and those who had the 
pleasure of reading these essays on their first ap- 
pearance will not be disposed to complain that 

•Fbench Profiles. By Edmund Gosse. New York : Dodd, 
Mead & Co. 



they are now rescued from their hiding places in 
magazines and reviews and given a more access- 
ible abiding place in a book, as befits their em- 
inently companionable nature. In subject they 
range aU the way from the "• Portuguese Let- 
ters," — those passionate outpourings of devotion 
and indignant reproach vnth which, from her 
convent at Beja, the abandoned " Mariana in the 
South " pursued the receding footsteps of the 
conquering and inconstant Marquis de Chamilly, 
and which came from the press almast at the same 
moment with the Tartttffe of Moliere. — to the 
poetic novelties of the year 1904 : and in scope 
from the fvdl length silhouette, like the studies of 
Alfred de Vigny, Mademoiselle Aisse, Alphonse 
Daudet, Barbey d'Atirevilly, and Ferdinand 
Fabre, to the few swift strokes with which a 
feature or an expression is caught and fixed, as in 
the pages devoted to Mallarme, Albert Samain, 
M. Emile Verhaeren. and M. Paul Fort, or to 
recent books of M. Paid Bourget, M. Pierre 
Loti, M. Henri de Regnier, and M. Anatole 
France. Not the least welcome is the sketch that 
informs us about the modest (in every sense) 
beginnings of one of the newest immortals, M. 
Rene Bazin ; and not the least interesting is the 
study of the short stories of Zola, in which Mr. 
Gosse discovers that deep spring of idealism 
that put on strange disguises in the novels of the 
Rougon-Macquart series, but asserted itself so 
clearly in his last works. 

In spite of this wide variety of theme and com- 
plete lack of sequence and connection bet^^een 
the papers, the residting book does not lack a 
certain kind of unity. This results partly from 
the imfailing qualities of Mr. Gosse's style : and 
partly from the point of riew from which the sub- 
ject is uniformly regarded, which is the " incom- 
plete and indirect " point of view of " one who 
paints a face in profile." If the task essayed is 
thus a modest and restricted one, it is not on that 
accoimt easy. The two blocks of stumbling are 
clearly indicated in the preface when Mr. Gosse 
thus defines his purpose : 

«♦ I have tried to preserve that attitude of sympathy, 
of general comprehension, for the lack of which some 
English criticism of foreign authors has been valueless, 
because proceeding from a point of view so far out of 
focus as to make its whole presentation false; and yet 
I have remembered that it is a foreigner that takes the 
portrait, and that it is for a foreign audience, not for a 
native one. 

" What I have sought in every case to do is to give 
an impression of the figure before me which shall be in 
general harmony with the tradition of French criticism, 
but at the same time to preserve that independence 
which is the right of a foreign observer, and to illus- 
trate the peculiarities of my subject by references to 
English poetry and prose. " 



14 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 1, 



It goes without saying that the programme 
thus traced is admirably realized. Few men of 
English speech could bring to its accomplish- 
ment so happy a gift of characterization, so 
engaging a style, so much intelligence and 
sympathy, so large a stock of precise informal 
tion, so extended an outlook over the long and 
wide expanse of modem literature. To what 
other, indeed, coidd a committee of discrimina- 
ting French critics have turned so confidently 
with the invitation to address the Societe des 
Conferences of Paris on " The Influence of 
France upon English Poetry"? We shoidd be 
very ungracious indeed were we to lament that 
the profiles are not something different, and that 
if we have made already a first-hand acquaint- 
ance with the subjects whom he introduces he 
does not lead us much further into their intimacy, 
or thi'ow upon the intricacies and obscurities of 
their message, if such there be, a more searching 
illumination. We are glad to take them grate- 
fidly as they are, and to feel that in their kind 
they could hardly be better. Never have the fea- 
tures and expressions of the familiar faces that 
pass in procession before us been caught more 
nicely or fixed on canvas more dexterously. And 
even when those of whom Mr. Gosse discourses 
are old axjquaintances, we shall get something 
more than an aesthetic pleasure from his compan- 
ionship. We can hardly listen half an hour to his 
well-informed talk without receiving manifold in- 
struction. There are even two or three positive 
additions to the sum of knowledge. Thus, in 
the study of de Vigny, our knowledge of the 
extent and promptitude of his response to En- 
glish influences is enlarged at several points ; 
and in the paper on the " Portuguese Letters " 
much exact information, drawn from conceal- 
ment in the papers of a provincial society, is 
turned to account for establishing the source and 
original sequence of these letters. 

In view of all this it wiU not detract appre- 
ciably from the interest of the general reader 
who is likely to take up such a volume at all 
that almost every page betrays the professional 
bias of the man of letters and of the historian 
of literature. The men and works observed are 
viewed in their historical connections, as mo- 
ments in a changing and developing theory and 
praxjtice of poetic art. That is inevitable, of 
course, when Mr. Gosse is dealing with poets 
like M. Henri de Regnier, Stephane Mallarme, 
or M. Paid Fort, who have been much pre- 
occupied with the teclmique of their art. But 
when speaking of de Vigny also he is much in- 
terested in the question of his artistic originality 



and his relations to the main literary influences 
of the time. It is as a historian of literature that 
he insists, with rather too much emphasis, we 
suspect, on the immediate and great influence of 
the "• Portuguese Letters " on prose style, both 
in England and in France. It is as a historian 
again that, by way of preface to his sympathetic 
sketch of M. Rene Bazin, he comments with 
much shrewdness on the " curious condition of 
the French novel " at the particidar moment in 
question. It is preeminently as the historian of 
English literature that he appears in the address 
on " The Influence of France ujx)n English 
Poetry " which here sees the light for the first 
time in its original English form. Within the 
brief limits of such an address no attempt is 
made, of course, to enimierate all the debts that 
English poetry owes to France. Mr. Gosse 
rather tries to distinguish broadly between two 
different ways in which English literature has 
borrowed from its neighbor, and the more con- 
spicuous residts in each kind. 

These two kinds of borrowing are, the one 
superficial, the other material ; the one of 
" color," the other of " substance." The sub- 
stantial borrowing is that exemplified by the 
drama of the Restoration ; imitation is gross and 
slavish, and individuality has been resigned. This 
is the sign of an unliealthy condition. " These 
are cases where an exliausted literature, in ex- 
treme decay, is kept alive by borrowing its very 
body and essence from a foreign source." On 
the other hand the times when a literature takes 
on a color from a foreign source are likely to be 
moments of health and vigor. This second man- 
ner of influence Mr. Gosse illustrates by the ex- 
ample of the Roman de la Rose and the part 
of the French poets in forming the talent of 
Chaucer, and again by Pope. The address is 
suggestive, especially of questions. We find our- 
selves wondering if literature is really conceived 
of as a living organism, imposing itself upon 
the series of individuals that seem to produce it, 
which would be to out-Brimetiere M. Brune- 
tiere's evolving literary species. Or is this 
impression but one of those illusions that the 
insufficiency of hmnan speech is constantly 
creating for us? Does Mr. Gosse mean any- 
thing more, after all, than that your small 
talent imitates crudely and slavishly, and your 
great talent originally and creatively, whether 
the models be imported or domestic ? 

Suggestive as the address is, it is not the part 
of the book that will be most enjoyed, even by 
those who may have a kind of professional in- 
terest in literary history. It is perhaps when 



X 



1906.] 



TELE DIAL 



15 



Mr. Gosse is least erudite and draws upon his 
store of personal reminiscences of men he has 
known in the body that he is most charming. 
The brief, fugitive glimpse of Verlaine is deli- 
cious, and from this a quotation must be taken. 

" It was all excessively amusing [he has been dining 
with a mixed company of lyrical sjTnbolists at a res- 
tatirant of the Latin Quarter], but deep down in my 
consciousness, tolling like a little bell, there continued 
to sound the words, ' We have not seen Verlaine.' I 
was losing all hope, and we were descending the Boide- 
vard, our faces set for home, when two more poets, a 
male and a female, most amiably hurried to meet as 
with the intoxicating news that Verlaine had been seen 
to dart into a little place called the Caf^ SoleU d'Or. 
Thither we accordingly hied, buoyed up by hope, tuod 
our party, now containing a dozen persons (all poets), 
rushed into an almost empty drinking-shop. But no 
Verlaine was to be seen. M. Mor^as then collected ns 
round a table, and fresh grenadines were ordered. 

" Where I sat, by the elbow of M. Mor&«, I was op- 
posite an open door, absolutely dark, leading down, by 
oblique stairs, to a cellar. As I idly watched this square 
of blackness I suddenly saw some ghostly shape flutter- 
ing at the bottom of it. It took the form of a strange 
bald head, bobbing close to the ground. Although it 
was BO dim and vague, an idea crossed my mind. Not 
daring to speak, I touched M. Mor^as, and so drew his 
attention to it. ' Pas un mot, pas un geste. Monsieur! ' 
he whispered, and then, instructed in the guile of his 
race, insidious Danaum, the eminent author of Let Can- 
tUmes. rose, making a vague detour towards the street, 
and then plunged at the cellar door. There was a pro- 
longed scuffle and a rolling down stairs; then M. Mo- 
r&s reapjKjared, triumphant; behind him something 
flopped up out of the darkness like an owl, — a timid 
shambling figure m a soft black hat, with jerking hands, 
and it peeped with intention to disappear again. But 
there were cries of ' Venez done, Maitre,' and by-and- 
by Verlaine was persuaded to emerge definitely and to 
git by me." 

All in all. Mr. Gosse's " French Profiles " 
is a volume to strengthen the present entente 
cordiale l>etween English and French by con- 
tributing towards mutual understanding and 
appreciation. One or two e\adences that oxir 
historian's memorj^ is not infallible (as the 
apparent oversight of Otway's " Titus and 
Berenice," p. 353). or that, felicitous as his 
phrase is, he can absent him from felicity on 
occasion (e, g. " a surprising narrative is welL, 
though extremely leisurely, told." p. 105), do 
not matter. Akthte G. Caxfield. 



Becext Fiction.* 



Two important educational books now in preparation 
by Messrs. Houghton, Mifflin & Co. are a volume of 
" Selections from Newman," edited by Dr. Maurice 
Egan, of the Catholic University of Washington; and 
an edition of Bacon's Essays, with introduction and 
notes by Ikliss Mary Augusta Seott, Professor of En- 
glish Language and Lit.erature, Smith College. Dr. 
Egan has recently been decorated by King Leopold of 
Belgium " for distinguished literary merit." 



*'The House of Mirth " appears to be the novel of 
the season in the sense that it is the novel that has 
occasioned the most discussion of a serious sort. It 
is a work which has enlisted the matured powers of 
a writer whose performance is always distinguished, 
and whose coupling of psychological insight with the 
gift of expression is probably not surpassed by any 
other woman novelist of our time. It is a story 
elaborated in every detail to a high degree of refine- 
ment, and evidently a product of the artistic eon- 
science. Having paid this deserved tribute to tte 
finer characteristics, we are bound to add that it is 
deficient in interest. The reason is not far to se^ 
There is no section of American society — or of society 
anywhere, for that matter — so absolutely devoid of 
appeal to the sympathies of normally-constituted 
intelligences as the vain and vulgar element that 
disports itself in our larger citi€«5 as the only society 
worth considering, this pretension being based upon 
wealth alone, with its natural accompaniment of self- 
seeking display and frivolity. A novelist of areb> 
angehcal powers could not make interesting M 
sorr>' a phase of hiunanity as this, and because Mrs. 
Wharton has described for us this tj-pe and this 
alone, we turn her pages impatiently, and look in 
vain for relief from their emptiness. What she can 
do with real material she has evidenced in "The 
Valley of Decision," a book that we admire heartily 
enough to permit ns the severity with which we are 
appraising the content, as distinguished from the 
form, of the faeesent work. What justification may 
be offered for the book as a portrayal of any sort of 
human life is found in the plt^ of ite satiric intent 
— of its character as an American " Vanity Fair," — 
but this will not take us verj' far. The pungent 
wickedness of Becky Sharp gives her a reasonable 
excuse for being, but we cannot find in Lily Bart 
the positive qualities for either good or evil that 
make it worth while to follow her fortunes through 
five hundred and more pages of print- When she 

*Thb House of Mibth. By Editli Wtaartcm. New Tock: 
Ch&rles Scribner'B So>ns. 

The Nobthebjter. By Norah Davis. 'Sew York : The Oes- 
taiT Co. 

Ltnktte akd the GoNGKimBiCAsr. By Mary Farley Bao- 
bom. Boston : Little, Brown. & Oo. 

Bib EAorx. A Tale of the Theft of an Empire. By James M. 
Lodlow. New York : The Fleming H. B^vell Co. 

A SwoKD OF THE Ou> PsoisTiKR. A Tale of Fort CSurtoes 
and Detroit. By BAndaU Parrish. Chicago: A. C.MoClnrg&Oo. 

Losers" LrcK. By Charles Tenney Jackson. New York: 
Henry Holt & Co. 

Twisted EcLAjmirE. By H. B. Marriott Watson. New 
York : D. Appleton & Oo. 

Stakvbcbow Fakm. By Stanley J. Weyman. New York: 
Longmans, Green, & Oo. 

Kipps. The Story of a Simple Soul. By H. G. WeUs. New 
York : Charles Scribner's Sons. 

The Princess Pbjscilla'b Fobtkight. By the author at 
"Elizabeth and her German Garden." New Toxk: Cbaites 
Scribner's Sons. 

The Flfte of Pan. By John Oliver Hobbee. New York: 
D. Appleton & Co. 

The Pbofesbob's Lbgact. By Mrs. Alfred Bidfwick. New 
York : Henry Holt A Oo. 



16 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 1, 



has come to the end of her tether, the moral of her 
story is embodied in an impressive paragi'aph. 

" It was no longer, however, from the vision of material 
poverty that she turned with the greatest shrinking. She 
had a sense of deeper impoverishment — of an inner desti- 
tution compared to which outer conditions dwindled into 
insignificance. It was indeed miserable to be poor — to look 
forward to a shabby, anxious middle-age, leading by dreary 
degrees of economy and self-denial to gradual absorption in 
the dingy communal existence of the boarding-house. But 
there was something more miserable still — it was the clutch 
of solitude at her heart, the sense of being swept like a stray 
uprooted growth down the heedless current of the years. 
That was the feeling which possessed her now — the feeling 
of being something rootless and ephemeral, mere spin-drift of 
the whirling surface of existence, without anything to which 
the poor little tentacles of self could cling before the awful 
flood submei^ed them. And as she looked back she saw 
that there had never been a time when she had had any real 
relation to life. Her parents too had been rootless, blown 
hither and thither on every wind of fashion, without any 
personal existence to shelter them from its shifting gusts. 
She herself had g^wn up without any one spot of earth 
being dearer to her than another : there was no centre of 
early pieties, of grave endearing traditions, to which her 
heart could revert and from which it could draw strength 
for itself and tenderness for others." 

This is SO fine and true that it reconciles us in part 
to the complex of empty talk and petty intrigue and 
ignoble aim through which, as through a desert 
waste, we have toiled to reach it. But the question 
remains persistent whether it was worth while to 
describe at such length and with such infinite pains 
the career of any woman of whom it must be said 
in the end that she had never had any real relation 
to life. We are much inclined to doubt that it was 
worth while — for a writer of Mrs. Wharton's ex- 
ceptional gifts. 

"The Northerner," by Miss Norah Davis, is a 
novel of the new South struggling with the old, of 
the modern infusion of enterprise into the shiftless- 
ness of the past, of the conflict between rational ideas 
and crusted prejudice. The protagonist of this con- 
flict is a northern capitalist settled in Alabama as the 
owner and manager of the street railway and light- 
ing plant of a small town. His ways are not the 
ways of the natives, and he incurs their hatred. This 
leads to such unpleasant consequences as social os- 
tracism, underhanded conspiracy to ruin his business, 
and the actual wrecking of his establishment. The 
situation becomes so strained that only the precau- 
tions of his two or three friends save him from a 
summary disposal at the hands of the mob. The 
negro problem, and the iri-ational temper of the pop- 
ulace in any question that concerns a negro, figure 
largely in the story, and prepare the way for a lynch- 
ing scene that is described with ghastly picturesque- 
ness. The author seems to have gained a singularly 
subtle insight into the southern way of regarding the 
color question, but leaves it hardly less a mystery 
than before to the analytic intelligence. The book 
has a softer side, also, and embodies a charming love- 
story, in which the hero comes out as successfully as 
his failiu-e is complete in other respects. It is an un- 
usually strong book, with an unusually strong man 
for its central character. 



Just a love story — and a particularly nice one — 
is what we have in " Lynette and the Congressman," 
by Miss Mary Farley Sanborn. Lynette is a young 
woman who lives with her mother in a Washington 
boarding-house, and is employed in one of the gov- 
ernment departments. She is a Virginian, and not 
the least of her cliarms is her soft and appealing 
southern speech, which is so reproduced in the text 
as to make its delicious accent sound in ovu' ears. 
The congi'essman is from Michigan, and is a wid- 
ower with two half-grown boys. He is besieged in 
the citadel of his affections by a pettish and opulent 
beauty who has distinctly vixenish characteristics, 
and his acts sometimes verge upon indiscretion. But 
his love for Lynette is the real thing, and saves him 
from the assaults of her designing rival. We do not 
quite like Lynette's daring experiment, which leads 
her, under an assumed name, to enter her rival's 
service as a maid, in order that she may find out 
whether the former is really deserving of the con- 
gressman's regard. The situation is, however, deftly 
managed, and not as unpleasant as it would seem from 
this description. 

The Rev. James M. Ludlow, who achieved a brilliant 
success with " The Captain of the Janizaries " about 
twenty years ago, and who has since been moderately 
successfvd with certain historical romances upon bib- 
lical themes, is to be congratulated upon his return 
to a subject similar in type to that of his first and best 
book. His new romance, " Sir Raoul," is a story of 
the Fom-th Crusade, and of its diversion, through 
Venetian intrigue, from its primary object to the raid 
upon Constantinople, which resulted in the brief res- 
toration of the Emperor Alexius, the temporary union 
of the Greek and Roman churches, and the estab- 
lishment of the Latin Empire of the East under 
Baldwin. Here is material enough and to spare ; 
the richness of the material, in fact, is responsible for 
the chief fault of the book, which huddles one event 
upon another to confusing effect. Mr. Ludlow's hero 
is a youthful knight of the Black Forest, who suffers 
disgrace early in his career, and is given out for dead, 
but who in reality remains very much alive, and par- 
ticipates, under an assmned name, in the exciting 
happenings with which the romance is concerned. 
The interest is sustained at a high pitch throughout, 
and the author's knowledge of his subject seems to 
embrace both the broad historical issues of the period 
and a diversity of cm*ious matters of detail respect- 
ing such things as chivalry, topography, and the 
secret ways of Venice and Constantinople. A neat 
and pointed style provides the story with an added 
element of attractiveness. 

Mr. Randall Parrish has given us a spirited ro- 
mance of Fort Chartres and Detroit in the days of 
the conspiracy of Pontiac, when Frenchmen were 
stiU clinging to a forlorn hope in their Mississippi 
valley outposts, and dreaming that a change in the 
political kaleidoscope might yet restore to them the 
dominion that had been lost forever when Wolfe had 
scaled the rock of Quebec four years earlier. "A 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



17 



Sword of the Old Frontier " is the title of this work, 
which describes a perilous journey from the Ohio 
River through the wilderness to Detroit, the hero 
being entrusted with the care of a young woman, 
who spurns hini at first, as all haughty and well- 
conducted heroines are expected to do, and graciously 
yields in the end. which we are all the time comfort- 
ably assured is inevitable. The story is strictiy con- 
ventional in t^'pe, but the type is one that has justi- 
fied its right to exist, which is the chief matter. 

" Losers' Luck," by ISIr. Charles Tenney Jackson? 
is a storj' of " the questionable enterprises of a yachts 
man, a princess, and certain filibusters in Central 
America." The yachtsman, a reckless American 
millionaire, with a trio of his friends, is kidnapped in 
the harbor of San Francisco by the princess and the 
filibusters. The yacht and its legitimate proprietors 
are hurried to the coast of Central America, the un- 
willing captives warming up to the enterprise as their 
indignation cools. This fact is to be accounted for 
by the winsome charm of the princess and the dare- 
devil characteristics of the yachtsman. They are 
soon plunged into the thick of a revolutionary upris- 
ing, and some very prett)- scrimmages ensue. The 
revolution is a failure, and the heroine for whose 
beaux t/eitx the yachtsman has committed himself to 
the dangerous enterprise, has the bad taste to prefer 
a Spanish to an American lover, which leaves the 
yachtsman disconsolate. Nevertheless, his last re- 
mark is to the effect that he would like to do it all 
over again. This lively book may be described as 
a blend of Bret Harte and Mr. Richard Harding 
Davis, and the mixture is commendable. 

"Twisted Eglantine." by ^Ir. H. B. Marriott 
Watson, is an English novel of the days of the 
Regency. A rustic beautj', who has character as 
well as charm, is the heroine, and her favor is 
assiduously sought by two persons — one an impet- 
uous young soldier, her associate from childhood, 
the other an accomplished rake and dandy of the 
court. For a time the latter seems to prevail and 
when he succeeds in enticing the girl to London, 
and dazzling her with the spectacle of fashionable 
society, the hopes of her soldier lover are at low 
ebb. But when the ■villainous intentions of Sir Piers 
are disclosed, and when at the call of the harassed 
damseL Faversham deserts from the army in Flan- 
ders and hastens to her rescue, the situation is 
changed, and the conventional romantic ending is 
assured. Despite his selfishness and his cjTiicism, 
Sir Piers is presented to us as so attractive a figure 
that we are almost sorry for his discomfiture. He 
puts his rival so neatiy in the wrong whenever the 
two men come into conflict, that we cannot blame 
Barbara from being tempted by his blandishments. 
Whatever the author may think of him in the char- 
acter of the moralist, there is no doubt that he fav- 
ors him in the character of the artist. And we are 
not abusing the word artist in this connection, for 
Mr. Marriott Watson has never given us a fiiier 
character-study than this of Sir Piers. It is hardly 



necessarj' to say also, for those who are to any 
degree acquainted with his work, that the book has 
a distinction of style which sets it far above the 
level of most books of its class. 

Another novel of about the same period is ]Mr. 
WejTuan's " Starvecrow Farm," which stands in 
sharp contrast to the sort of historical romance 
which we associate with his name. Here the her- 
oine elopes with the villain in the first chapter, but 
the villain is a very low scoundrel indeed, and his 
victim is soon undeceived. Soon abandoned by him, 
she has a variety of distressing experiences, which 
include a sojourn in jail, and a hairbreadth escape 
from a gang of cutthroats. Captain Clyne, who loves 
her after a fashion, and who saves her from the 
consequences of her imprudence, is by no means a 
hero of the romantic type, but is so vast an improve- 
ment upon the fellow who had so nearly been the 
cause of her undoing, that she accepts him grate- 
fully in the end, after the usual measure of misun- 
derstanding. This is by no means the best of Mr. 
Weyman's novels, but it has a considerable interest 
nevertheless. 

The appalling vulgarity of English lower-class 
society, its absolute aloofness from everything that 
gives a spiritual meaning to life, its utter imper- 
viousness to ideas of any kind, are the impressions 
that chiefly remain after reading " Kipps." Mr. 
Wells describes the hero of this realistic narrative 
as " a simple soul," but the description is inadequate, 
for he is represented as an esprit bomS beyond our 
powers of credulity, if we are to regard him as 
being in any way of a normal type. For experi 
ence will knock even the meanest of normal natures 
into some sort of conformity with a new environ- 
ment, but Kipps, born in povert}% and unexpectedly 
raised to affluence, shows no adaptability' whatever, 
and proves incapable of sloughing off even the 
externals of the habit that has been fashioned for 
him by his instincts and his surroundings. Per- 
sistence of essential character under changed con- 
ditions is undoubtedly one of the deepest lessons of 
psychology-, but average human nature is capable 
of a good deal of transformation to superficial seem- 
ing. Kipps, the draper's assistant, however, when 
he becomes Kipps the opulent, courted by society, 
remains a shop-boy no less in manner than in soul, 
and this despite his most resolute determination to 
acquire the ways of the class into which he has been 
suddenly elevated. This serves the author's pur- 
pose of humorous exaggeration, but it is not good 
science, and science is supposed to be Mr. Wells's 
trump suit. Nevertheless, the story of Kipps and 
his social mishaps is fascinating because of its merci- 
less analysis of the irredeemably vulgar type of 
mind, because of its truthfulness of sordid detail, 
and because of its satirical side-lights upon the fads 
and follies of the age. We cannot easily forget, for 
example, such a characterization as that of one of 
the minor figures, the young man "who had been 
reading Nietzsche, and thought that in all proba- 



18 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 1, 



bility he was the Non-Moral Overman referred to 
by that writer." We are quite prepared, after this, 
to expect the eventual crash in the finances of 
Kipps, who has rashly placed his property under the 
management of the young man thus neatly described. 
The book offers many such bits of entertainment as 
this, besides displajang an almost Dickens-like gift 
for the portrayal of eccentric traits and types of 
character. 

The author of " Elizabeth and her German Gar- 
den " has given us, in "' The Princess Priscilla's 
Fortnight," the most charming extravaganza imag- 
inable. The Princess Priscilla, it seems, is a demure 
young thing who conforms outwardly to the life of 
the Grand Ducal court of Lothen-Kunitz, to the 
manner whereof she is born, but privately enter- 
tains her own views of things. Under the insidious 
influences of her tutor, the Hofbibliothekar, an 
impossible idealist of grandfatherly age, she has 
learned to despise the worldly advantages of her 
lot, and to yearn for the simple life. The crisis is 
reached when a marriage is planned for her with a 
prince whom she does not know. She informs her 
astonished tutor that in flight must be her salvation, 
and that he is to be her accomplice and companion. 
This innocent soul, ti"ansformed perforce into a con- 
spirator, plans their secret departure, and, good luck 
aiding them, the strangely-assorted pair of adven- 
turers make their way to England, and bury them- 
selves in a country village, where they obtain a 
rose-embowered cottage. They take with them 
Annalise, reckless of the possible consequences. 
This menial seems a properly subdued and inoffen- 
sive person, but she has capabilities, and their devel- 
opment leads to the undoing of her mistress. But 
this is to anticipate. Settled in the village, Pris- 
cDla proceeds to demoralize its inhabitants by means 
of what the scientific philanthropists call indiscrim- 
inate charity. She invites the neighborhood chil- 
dren to Sunday parties, feeding their sinful bodies 
and imperilling their immortal souls. She employs 
help at unheard-of wages. She ruins the character 
of the model pauper of the village — a bedridden 
old woman — by gifts of five-pound notes and bot- 
tles of rum. She causes both the son of the vicar 
and the son of the great lady of the parish to fall 
wildly in love with her (she can't help that, poor 
thing I ) and thereby stormUy agitates the breasts of 
their respective mothers. It is all one bright dream 
of realized ideals until the money gives out, when 
clouds encompass the scene. Then Annalise be- 
comes obstreperous, reveals the whereabouts of the 
truants, and the prince appears to bear away his 
betrothed. It is a lovely story, and the fortnight 
which it describes is all too brief for om* enjoyment, 
although it proves quite sufficient to cure the prin- 
cess of her vagrant fancies, and to reconcile her to 
the existence upon which she had impulsively turned 
her back. 

"The Flute of Pan," which is the latest of the 
inventions of that accomplished woman of letters, 



"John Oliver Hobbes," is also about a piincess, and is 
quite as fantastic a tale, in its way, as the one pre- 
viously under discussion. This princess, however, 
does not desert her principality", but, finding it threat- 
ened by armed invasion, imports a husband to com- 
mand her forces, and share with her the cares of state. 
He is an eccenti'ic Englishman of title and wealth, 
who has renounced the world of vanity, and is engaged 
in the pursuit of art. She finds him in his lodgings 
at Venice, and bends him, not altogether unwillingly, 
to her pm-pose, he, however, making the condition 
that when order shall be restored to the agitated realm, 
she shall abdicate, and retui-n to share his humble 
life as an artist in Venice. The subsequent narrar 
tive is occupied, not so much with warlike adventure 
as with the private misunderstandings which keep 
the two at cross-purposes for a long time. Briefly 
stated, each suspects the other of an illicit entangle- 
ment. When these dark suspicions are cleared away, 
and when the enemy is defeated, the princess car- 
ries out her part of the bargain in good faith, but in 
the end new difficidties arise which compel her and 
her consort to take up once more the burden of rule. 
The whole story is told in the vein of comedy, and 
is but a trifling performance. For the explanation 
of the symbolical title, we must refer readers to the 
book itself. 

A pleasing story of love, misunderstanding, and 
reconciliation is told by Mrs. Alfred Sidgwick in 
"The Professor's Legacy." The professor is an 
eminent German authority on corals, and the legacy 
is his daughter, whom he leaves to the care of an 
Englishman of mature years, who has collaborated 
with him in the work which he does not live to com- 
plete. The Englishman offers marriage to the girl, 
as the simplest means of taking care of her, and she 
accepts, despite a girlish infatuation for a German 
musician. The scene then changes from Fichten- 
stadt to a country estate in England, but relations 
between husband and wife remain strained, he not 
seeing that she has really come to care for him, and 
she not discovering the genuine love concealed be- 
neath his cold exterior. This device keeps the story 
going until it has attained the requisite length, when 
the mutual misunderstandings are cleared away. 
The story is, as we said at the beginning, a pleas- 
ant one, embodying no very deep passion or subtle 
analysis of character, but nevertheless an agreeable 
composition of nicely-adjusted parts. 

William Morton Payxe. 



Notes ox Xeav Novels. 



" The Javelin of Fate," by Miss Jeanie Gould Lin- 
coln, is distinguished from the mass of current fiction 
by the technical skill with which it presents a plot that 
has in itself real movement and vitality. It is a Civil 
War story, its action centering in that hot-bed of rebel- 
lion, Baltimore. But it begins twenty years before the 
war, in a little moimtain cabin in Virginia, where a dis- 
tracted yoiuig mother deserts her cliild amid the pro- 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



19 



phetic imprecations of the old niainmy in whose care she 
leaves it. For years she escapes the nemesis of fate, 
but throughout her brilliant career there is one motive 
behind her social activities and political intrigues — the 
wish to punish the man who spoUed her youth and 
robbed her of the capacity for happiness. At last her 
opportunity arrives, but old instincts and old affections 
assert themselves. She forgives the man and goes to 
find her child. Then the javelin strikes her. This is 
the main thread of the narrative, which is skilfully inter- 
woven with others less sombre. (Houghton, MifBin & 
Co.) 

In " Miss Desmond " (Macmillan) ^larie Van Vorst 
has made a long stride toward the writing of significant 
fiction. She has evolved a situation that Mr. Henry 
James would revel in; and without resorting to Mr. 
James's familiar method, she has brilliantly suggested, 
if she has not always developed, its subtleties. Her 
heroine, Miss Desmond, is a middle-aged recluse, a 
Bostonian Puritan, who has sacrificed her youth to an 
exacting old mother and has just awakened to the con- 
viction that she has never really lived. In this mood 
of tentative, half-frightened dissatisfaction and longing 
she is suddenly sumnaoned to chaperon a niece, — ^the 
sophisticated but unspoiled daughter of a thoroughly 
disreputable sister, — on a Swiss tour. A week later 
the object of the sister's latest love-affair comes by 
chance to their hotel. He finds in Miss Desmond the 
bodily appearance of the woman he had left in disgust, 
united to a spiritual beauty that he is in a mood to 
appreciate by contrast. The development of the theme 
is dramatic, though at times a little unsure; and the 
characterization is uncommonly delicate and significant. 

" The Passport " (Harper), by Mr. Richard Bagot, is 
a rather slow-moving story of love and intrigue, in an 
Italian setting. A parish priest with a mysterious past 
is the ruling character. He has an interest, dating back 
to the time when he was a canon at Rome, in the young 
hero and heroine; and he finally manages to convince 
the girl's step-mother that young Rossano and not the 
gambling Belgian baron, d'Antin, is the more suitable 
husband for her charge. The baron has a coadjutor in 
the person of the Abbd Roux, as great a scoundrel as 
himself, but not so clever. Peasant revolts add an ele- 
ment of variety to the plots and counter-plots of the 
villains. Mr. Bagot's style is clever and finished, and 
one wonders a little why his book does not make more 
of an impression. It may be safely recommended as a 
good story, likely to carry the reader pleasantly to the 
end of its four hundred closely-printed pages; but it 
lacks a definite, clear-cut motive that should give it 
force and value. 

Mr. W. W. Jacobs's latest book, "Captains All" 
(Scribner), is named after the first story in a collection 
of tales, only three of which are really nautical. But 
any disappointment that the reader may experience on 
this score is soon forgotten in his enjoyment of the au- 
thor's humor. Mr. Jacobs makes the doings and say- 
ings of a certain type of English low-life irresistibly 
funny in the telling. His sailors ashore, his constables, 
night-watchmen, small shop-keepers, pigeon-shooters, 
and their wives and friends, are delightful studies, de- 
picted vrith the same penetration and the same joyous 
appreciation of the comedy of life that distinguish all 
Mr. Jacobs's work. It is hard to pick out any stories 
deserving of special mention, for the workmanship is 
very even ; but certainly none are better than " The 
Constable's Move," which teUs how Policeman Evans's 



worst enemy unwittingly got him made a sergeant; and 
" The White Cat," the story of a strange legacy that 
brought as much trouble on its various owners as the 
proverbial white elephant. 

" Land Ho " (Haiper) is the title chosen for a collee- 
tion of Mr. Morgan Robertson's sea stories. In several of 
these are told the adventures of Scotty, an original old 
fellow forced by circumstances to be deck-hand on a 
freight barge in New York harbor, but leading a life 
full of interest and excitement none the less. The sea, 
8S Scotty and the rest of Mr. Robertson's heroes know 
it, is a hard mistress, exacting a heavy toll of labor and 
sorrow and making little return; and as a whole Mr. 
Robertson's book does not make cheerful reading. A 
strange case of souonambulism is the theme of " The 
Cook and the Captain "; " The Lobster " and his friends 
are only amateur sailors, and a few stories at the end 
of the book have no connection with the sea or its folk. 
It is a pity that Mr. Robertson does not occasionally 
choose to exploit a thoroughly pleasant theme. His 
style is powerful, but his insight is always exercised on 
gruesome situations. 

Mr. Charles Major's new romance " Yoluida " (Mae- 
millan) resembles " When Knighthood Was in Flower " 
more than it does any of this author's other books. 
There is a piquant and spirited heroine who braves 
everything for the man she loves, and the hero is satis- 
factory enough, though distinctly subordinate in the 
reader's interest, as was Brandon. The love affair leads 
the pair through many extraordinary perils and dilem- 
mas, but in the end the prince marries the princess ex- 
actly as their parents had planned, though the step is 
by no means taken out of deference to parental wishes. 
For some imexplainable reason Mr. Major has chosen 
to have the story related by Count Maximilian's tutor — 
a method which has its disadvantages when a passion- 
ate, and let us hope a private, love-scene is to be con- 
fided to the reader. In spite of this mistake, however, 
Mr. Major has written another good story, which his 
public will be glad to welcome. 

Miss Margaret Sherwood's new novel, " The Coming 
of the Tide " (Houghton, Mifflin & Co.), has much of 
the choice pastoral quality of her earlier book, " Daphne." 
This latter tale was so charming that it helped to set a 
fashion in fiction-writing; and perhaps it is only the 
host of perfunctory imitations that have come between 
to dull our appetites that makes " The Coming of the 
Tide " seem a little commonplace by comparison. It 
tells the story of a summer on the Maine coast, whither 
the heroine, a Southern girl, goes to forget a great sor- 
row. The plot, which is very simple, involves a study 
in heredity. The hero, a dreamy philosopher, is mor- 
bidly conscious of his inheritance of ancestral traits and 
ancestral quarrels. But the girl from Virginia makes 
him feel the joy of living, and understand the song of the 
tides. The charm of the book lies largely in Miss Sher- 
wood's delicate humor, delightful fancy, and carefully 
finished, but never coldly classic, style. 

Like all of Mr. Arthur Henry's stories, " Lodgings in 
Town " (A. S. Barnes & Co.) is more fact than fiction. 
It tells how the author came to New York with a clean 
collar, eight dollars, and a poem, what he found in the 
city to hold his interest, and how he finally chose the 
obscurity of a mountain farm, in preference to material 
advancement in town. Much of the interest of the story 
springs from the keen analysis of New York's peculiari- 
ties, as Mr. Henry, fresh from a strenuous career in the 
Middle West, interpreted them. But the core of the 



20 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 1, 



book is its philosophy. If a man works not for money 
or for himself, but, " searching events for the soul of 
them," takes imaffected pleasure in what he can do for 
other men, he can be happy anywhere — and most easily 
perhaps in a Baxter Street tenement. The intimate, 
straightforward, and lively style in which Mr. Henry 
writes, and his large and convincing optimism, make a 
strong appeal to the reader's sympathy. 

The success scored by " In the Bishop's Carriage " 
lends special interest to Miss Miriam Michelson's new 
novel, "A Yellow Journalist" (Appleton). Like its 
predecessor this is a novel with a heroine ; and the new 
heroine, Rhoda Massey, has a strong individuality — 
a pluck, perseverance, and a certain feminine charm be- 
neath her masculine energy — that suggests Nancy, 
minus the curious moral .attitude that made Nancy so 
unique. Rhoda finds newspaper work as intoxicating as 
most girls do cotillons, and thinks of nothing but pleas- 
ing her chief and "scooping" her rivals. Reporting 
in San Francisco seems to furnish an abimdance of sen- 
sations, but the reader is not surprised when Rhoda 
gives it all up to marry the reporter that she had always 
secretly admired, though professionally they were at 
swords' points. 

After these many years Mr. Rider Haggard has writ- 
ten a sequel, or rather a continuation, of " She." It is 
called " Ayesha " (Doubleday, Page & Co.), and is the 
story of the further adventures of Mr. Holly, tlie real 
author of " She," and Leo Vincey in the momitains of 
Tibet, whither they went to seek the wonderful Spirit of 
the Mountain. This time the token of verity which 
Mr. Holly sends with his manuscript is the sceptre with 
which Ayesha was wont to rule the shadows in her 
moimtain temple. The story opens with an account of 
a vision in which the lovely Ayesha tells her mortal 
lover how to return to her. The adventures of the trav- 
ellers are of no ordinary kind. Seven years of awful 
hardship are dismissed in a brief paragraph, and only 
the last crucial moments of the search are detailed. It 
will be interesting to see how the new " She " strikes 
twentieth century tastes. 

Mr. Rupert Hughes, the author of " American Com- 
posers " and " The Love- Affairs of Great Musicians," 
has turned his insight into the emotional make-up of the 
musician to account by writing a novel. He calls it 
" Zal," which is a Polish word signifying the hopeless 
homesickness of the exile. The hero is a Polish musi- 
cian, named Ladislav, who wins a slow recognition and 
then an overwhelming success in America. But it is 
his love affair with a rich American girl, rather than his 
concert career, that engrosses the reader's attention. 
As a study of the artistic temperament " Zal " is very 
interesting, but Mr. Hughes makes a mistake in forcing 
his hero to choose between saving his mother or his 
sweetheart from drowning. Such an episode cannot be 
satisfactorily handled in fiction. Otherwise, particularly 
for a first novel, " Zal " shows very good workmanship. 
(Century Co.) 

" Lady Bobs, her Brother, and I " (Putnam) is already 
familiar to readers of " The Critic," where it appeared 
serially. Miss Jean Chamblin has followed a passing 
fashion in using the letter form for her story, and in 
supplementing plot interest with animated accounts of 
life and scenery m the Azores. Her protagonist is a 
yovmg actress, who, being tired and so impressed with 
the futility of her dramatic efforts, goes off to rest in a 
far corner of the earth and finds there most of the people 
she has particularly wished to get away from — includ- 



ing the inevitable lover. It is a pity that Miss Chamblin 
has felt it necessary to resort to meaningless slang and 
cheap humor in order to enliven her heroine's letters. 
In these days there is surely no good reason why an 
actress should not be represented as a cultured woman, 
exercising good taste in the choice of a vocabulary as 
in other matters. 

" Child of the Stars " is the mystical title of a some- 
what mystical tale by Mr. Robert Valentine Mathews. 
The narrative altogether lacks miity, but at certain 
points it has decided charm in spite of its annoying in- 
consecutiveness. At first it purports to be the avitobi- 
ography of a man who began his life as a foundling in 
a Jesuit orphanage. Riimiing away one day, not because 
of unhappiness but merely to explore the neighborhood, 
he foimd a little girl playing by the river. After this 
the story is more hers than his, and the title is the name 
of a famous pictm-e which her faithless husband painted. 
The picture, again, is in no sense the pivotal point of 
the story. Mr. Mathews has some mteresting material 
at his command, but he must either learn plot construc- 
tion or else avoid altogether the novel form. His 
" ChUd of the Stars " is a confusing hybrid, — neither 
novel nor simple narration. (Edwin C. Hill Co.) 

Mr. Herman Bernstein, already known as the author 
of several novels of Jewish life, in " Contrite Hearts " 
(A. Wessels Co.) presents still another picture of the 
simple yet picturesque manners of his people in Russia 
and New York. Mr. Bernstein's tale is sincere and 
quite devoid of artifice. It tells the story of two Jewish 
girls, the apostate daughters of Israel Lampert, cantor 
and reader of the law in his village. Both gii-ls love 
Gentiles and are cast out from their father's house. 
They go singly to New York, meet there by chance, and 
in the end renounce the new thought that is distiirbing 
their people's ancient beliefs, and become reconciled to 
their old father. The story has a curious mterest, as an 
interpretation, from the inside, of a theory of life utterly 
foreign to the average reader's ideas. 



Briefs ox Kew Books. 



A book of aood Holding that life is the test of thought, 
sense and not thought the test of life, Dr. Henry 

sound ideals. yg^j^ Dykg puts forth a volume of 
"Essays in Application" (Scribner), being ideas 
and ideals tested by experience and removed from 
the domain of theory to that of fact. On an early 
page he refers feelingly to " those hours of despond- 
ency and disappointment when the grasshopper and 
the critic become a burden." Nothing that is to be 
said of his book by the present critic will in the least 
intensify the gloom of those despondent hours ; for 
the essays are all excellent, both in substance and in 
form. The writer stands with both feet planted on 
the solid earth, while his " dome of thought " reaches, 
not into the clouds, but beyond them. In other words, 
practical good sense and lofty idealism are happily 
married in his pages. Wise counsel is offered on 
education, religion, literature, — its production and 
its consumption, — the simple life, and many other 
matters of universal interest. In his general reflec- 
tions on the progress of the world, he is optimistic, 
or, rather, melioristic and hopeful. "Pessimism 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



21 



never gets anywhere," he declares. •• It is a poor 
wagon that sets out with creaking and groaning." 
His definition of literature recalls Matthew Arnold's. 
" Lit€ratm-e," writes the later essayist, " is made up 
of those writings which translate the inner mean- 
ings of nature and life, in language of distinction 
and charm, touched with the personality of the au- 
thor, into artistic forms of permanent interest." 
Three e^-U tendencies he finds in our modern world 
against which the spirit of Christianity embodied in 
a worthy literature can do much to guard us. These 
are the growing idolatry of military glory, the grow- 
ing idolatry of wealth, and the growing spirit of 
frivolity. The last-named tendency gives occasion 
for mildly rebuking a brilliant contemporary British 
essayist, much given to paradox, who will need no 
more particular designation. Touching on educar 
tion. Dr. van Ih^ke deprecates the term '* finished 
scholar," which to him has a mortuary soxmd, like 
an epitaph. The right education teaches to see 
clearly, to imagine vividly, to think independently, 
and to win nobly. Terse and striking phraseology 
is not wanting in these suggestive chapters. The 
whirl of fashion shows us the '* busy emptiness of 
life at top speed." Would-be art connoisseurs "go 
into raptures over a crooked-necked Madonna after 
they have looked into their catalogues and discovered 
that it was painted by Botticelli." This, in Car- 
lylesque language, is " the veriest simian mimicry 
of artistic enthusiasm, a thing laughable to gods 
and men." A book so admirably combining enter- 
tainment and edification is not published every day, 
or every month. 

The blot on ^^ ''The Indian Dispossessed" (Little, 
our national Brown &. Co.). Mr. Seth K. Humphrey 
etcutcheon. describes the treatment by the United 
States government during the last three decades of 
the Reservation, or peaceful, Indian. The book con- 
sists principally of extracts from the reports of Indian 
agents and the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, con- 
nected by a thread of narrative. It is the old and famil- 
iar story of the ruthless occupation of Indian country 
by white men who recognize no right as belonging to 
the original owner. The Introduction briefly traces 
the steps by which the Indian was pushed back 
from the frontier, until finally there was no longer a 
frontier and he was then placed on the Reservation. 
The account of the treatment of the Reservation 
Indians is from the Indian point of view, and gives 
only one side of the question at issue ; but there is no 
doubt that, according to the reports of its own officials, 
the government has been guilty of criminal negligence 
and gross injustice in its ti-eatment of the peaceful 
red man. The author selects for discussion the cases 
of the Umadillas, Flat Heads, Nez Perces, Poncas, 
and the Mission Indians of California. The history 
of the four first-named is the same : a treaty- is made 
with the United States securing to the Indians good 
reservations ; then come the white settlers who want 
the Indian lands: next the government, influenced 
by the politicians, forces the Indians to less desirable 



land, or to the Indian Territory — ** the grave of the 
Northern Indian"; and then follows the gradual 
extinction of the tribe. The treatment of the civ- 
ilized Mission Indians seems to have been the worst 
of all. They had good homes, were peaceful and 
good citizens, yet the government would admit to 
them no rights at aU. — or, in the language of the 
Senate Committee, " the Indian had no usufructuary 
or other rights therein which were in any manner to 
be respected"; and .the whites took their lands and 
homes. One of the final chapters describes the late 
method of dividing the spoils taken from the Indian. 
As long as there was a frontier the rule was, '* first 
come, first served." Next, when reservations sur- 
rounded by settled territory are thrown open, the 
government fixes the day and hour, and thousands 
of home-seekers line up to race for homes, — as was 
done at the opening of the Cherokee Strip. Finally, 
the government makes use of the lottery, as in the 
case of the Rosebud Reservation, to divide out the 
prizes, — a method condemned as Ulegal by the 
national postal laws. The author disavows any in- 
tention of claiming that all men are equal or should 
be given equal pri\Tleges ; but he maintains, how- 
ever, that '• no man has a place or fair chance to 
exist under the government of the United States 
who has not a part in it." From the government, 
influenced by politicians, the author expects little 
consideration for the woes of the Indian. The 
proper way to secure relief is, he says, to " instill in 
the public mind a deep persistent distrust of the 
National Congress." 

The ton of "^^^ personality' and career of the son 

Napoleon and of Napoleon and Marie Louise have 
Afarie LouUe. always attracted interest both histor- 
ically and as a matter of curiosity. A new study of 
his position and importance is now offered in a vol- 
ume by Eklward de Wertheimer, entitled " The Duke 
of Reichstadt" (John Lane Co.), presented in a 
pretty binding decorated with the Napoleonic bee, 
and containing a nxmiber of excellent portraits. The 
volume is essentially an historical study, not a mere 
collection of gossip and rumor : for the author has 
made a careful search of many archives, understands 
thoroughly the historical setting, and is more con- 
cerned to give an account of the diplomatic intrigues 
centering about the Duke and his mother than to pre- 
sent a striking personal characterization. One learns, 
indeed, very little about the qualities and ideas of 
Reichstadt himself, for necessarily his ideas were of 
much less contemporaneous importance than were 
the ideas of such men as Metternich and TaUej-rand 
as to what should be done with him. It is difficult 
to realize to-day that he really had so much impor- 
tance, and that courts and cabinets were agitated for 
fear of movements and conspiracies to place him 
upon the throne of France. The plans solemnly 
proposed (when he was but seven years old) that he 
should be forced into monastic life, or precluded 
from ever marrying, in order forever to cut off the 
Napoleonic heritage, seem absurd to-day ; yet to the 



22 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 1, 



statesmen of that time his existence, even in the 
secluded circle in which he moved at Vienna, was 
a matter for constant surveillance. * Mr. de Wert- 
heimer traces the principal events, and narrates these 
diplomatic manceuvrings, from the time of his hero's 
hirth in 1811 through the twenty-one years of his 
life. Naturally, the central figure of the story is 
Metternich, — the man whose patriotic statecraft is 
responsible for whatever seems heartless in the treat- 
ment of Reichstadt and of Marie Louise. The lat- 
ter is in no sense excused by the author for her 
conduct toward Napoleon, or in her later relations 
with Neipperg, — unless to portray her as a woman 
without imagination, or any perception of great prin- 
ciples, is an excuse. But personalities have little 
place in the author's method. His work is not in- 
tended for the merely curious, but it is of real his- 
torical value. 

Our hearts do not leap up when we 
i^v^£:ios. behold a halo on the title-page. So 

says the entertaining author of " The 
Pardoner's "Wallet " (Houghton, Mifflin & Co.), and 
therefore he will perhaps not thank a reviewer for 
designating him as the Rev. Dr. Crothers, especially 
as he has studiously shorn his name bare of all titles, 
sacred or profane, on his own title-page. But when 
the book-appraiser proceeds to balance this possible 
disservice by reminding the pm'chasing public, should 
it need any such reminder, that the author of the 
book in question is also the author of " The Gentle 
Reader," — a fact also excluded from the title-page, — 
possibly the Pardoner will grant the offender an in- 
dulgence from his well-filled wallet. Of these eleven 
essays, three, if we mistake not, have already ap- 
peared in "The Atlantic"; the rest appear to be 
new. We find here, as in the author's earlier vol- 
ume, a succession of pleasing fancies and humorous 
conceits, steadied with a due ballast of sober thought 
and moral purpose. Common sense, alert observa- 
tion, a varied experience of life in divers longitudes 
of our broad land, gentle satire, delicate humor, all 
tastefully adorned with a sufficient garnish of liter- 
ary allusion, quotation, and anecdote, — combine to 
produce a book that stimulates while it amuses, and 
promotes thought at the same time that it drives away 
dull care. The title finds its appropriateness in the 
fact that most of the chapters deal with faults and 
foibles that are not inexcusable, although open to 
friendly criticism. The essay that affords the purest 
intellectual delight is the jeu d'esprit entitled " How 
to Know the Fallacies," wherein " Scholasticus " is 
represented as yielding so far to modern educational 
methods as to throw his treatise on logical fallacies 
into the form of a series of lessons in botany. " Let 
MS go out in the sunshine into the pleasant field of 
thought," says the botanist-logician. " There we see 
the arguments — valid and otherwise — as they are 
growing. You will notice that every argument has 
three essential parts. First is the root, called by the 
old logicians in their crabbed language the Major 
Premise. Growing quite naturally out of this is the 



stem, called the Minor Premise ; and crowning that 
is the flower, with its seed-vessels which contain the 
jjotentialities of future arguments, — this is called the 
Conclusion." A genial first-personalism (unkind the 
critic who should call it egoism) pervades the book 
and admits one quite intimately into the writer's 
confidence — or at least seems to do so. Finally, 
Dr. Crothers, to use the language of a brother divine, 
belongs to that best class of essayists who " clarify 
life by gentle illumination and lambent humor." 



Among the greatest of the leaders of 
ofij^uari^s. English thought in the nineteenth 

century, and the greatest of all in 
the Unitarian denomination, was James Martineau. 
It is fitting, therefore, that the centennial of his birth 
should be marked by the publication of an elaborate 
study of his life and work, prepared by Mr. J, Estlin 
Carpenter, an old pupil of Martineau and for many 
years his co-worker in Manchester College, and pub- 
lished by the American Unitarian Association. The 
book is really a model of what a work of this kind 
should be. Fully to understand the achievements 
of a thinker we must know the conditions of thought 
which surround him and his effect upon those condi- 
tions. Martineau's life covered nearly the entire 
century (1805-1900), and his biographer furnishes 
from time to time graphic and illuminating sum- 
maries of the intellectual movements of those years. 
One of the best of these is the fourth chapter, 
devoted to " Religion and Philosophy in England, 
1805-1832." In this, the poets are shown to have 
played a prominent part, — Wordsworth, who "led 
the way in the revolt against the mechanical inter- 
pretation of the world"; Shelley, who "prophesied the 
regeneration to be wrought out only by faithfulness 
and love"; Byron, in " Cain," "with sterner defiance 
hm'ling his protest against the prevailing theology." 
With the year 1832, another new era was at hand, 
with Carlyle, Tennyson, Browning, and John Henry 
Newman as its prophets. " Through the medley of 
conflicting cries in science, philosophy, and Biblical 
criticism, James Martineau slowly realized the task 
to which he was called : — to vindicate the great 
conception which he defined as ' the perennial In- 
dwelling of God in Man in the Universe.' " How 
he wrought on this great life-work ; how, gradually 
abandoning the language of the older generation, he 
denounced the method of interpretation in which 
he had been brought up ; how he was rebuked for 
destroying all external authority, and how he replied 
by pointing to an authority from within, resting on 
the nature, scope, powers, and source of reason, — 
tjiese are the great events in the life-history of this 
great and original thinker. Closing the volume, we 
agree with the biographer, that "among the English 
theologians of the nineteenth century none had cov- 
ered so wide a range ; none possessed so varied a 
knowledge ; none had more completely blended the 
highest efforts of speculation with graces of char- 
acter and the trusts of a lowly heart." 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



23 



Professor Edward Dickinson, of 
ti^atlSt^iu. OberlinCoUege has written a work 

called "The Study of the History of 
Music" (Scribner) which we take pleasure in com- 
mending. It offers a straightforward and scholarly 
treatment of the subject, and is based upon the 
author's practice as a lecturer in the institution with 
which he is connected. There are fortj'-three chap- 
ters and a bibliography of works accessible in En- 
glish. Besides this general list of authorities, each 
chapter has valuable bibliographical notes upon its 
special subject-matter. "We quote the following pas- 
sage from the introduction : 

" The basis of the true study of the history and meanii^ 
of any art is not the reading of books abont -works of art, but 
the direct first-hand examination of the works themsel'ves. 
This dogma needs to be incessantly hammered into the heads 
of amateur students of music. If this book encourag«d any- 
one to substitute critics and historians for the actual compo- 
sitions of the masters, then the author's intention would be 
grossly perverted and his hopes disappointed. The first aim 
of the music lover should be to make himself acquainted with 
the largest |)ossible number of the best musical compositions."' 

Concerning this saying we would say that it is true, 
every word of it, but that such a warning is perhaps 
less needed in the case of music than in the case of 
any other art. Our observation has been that most 
young students of music neglect the history of the 
art altogether, and merely learn to " play pieces." 
Of the place of those compositions in the history of 
music, of their aesthetic and ethical content, and of 
the significance of their composers, few amateur 
musicians have any notion whatever. A book that 
aims to remedy this defect deserves a warm wel- 
come, and need hardly fear that it will incline the 
balance of the student's attention in the wrong di- 
rection. "We have often urged that music should be 
studied in the way in which poetry is studied, which 
of course does not mean that poetry should be neg- 
lected for the sake of books about poetry, but that 
acquaintance with no poem is adequate that does not 
include acquaintance with its place and function in 
literary history. 

Some ethical -^ those who know the active part 
gain* through taken by Mrs. Florence Kelley in 
legitiation. ^jj^ crusa'de against child labor, ovei^ 

work, and unsanitary conditions, will appreciate the 
value of a book from her pen which attempts to 
estimate the present value of "Ethical Grains through 
Legislation" (MacmUlan), and which endeavors 
to suggest some of the many ways in which these 
already acquired gains may be increased many fold. 
The chief feature in the desired increase is the edu- 
cation of the employing, employed, and purchasing 
public in the rules which govern wholesome and_ 
honest labor, which tend to increase the public 
wealth, to strengthen the public health, and to 
strengthen the weaker members of the body politic. 
A discussion of these rules is the chief feature of 
Mrs. Kelley 's book, which is divided into seven sig- 
nificant parts: "The Right to Childhood." "The 
ChUd, the State, and the Nation," "The Right to 
Leisure," "Judicial Interpretations of the Right to 



Leisure," "The Right of Women to the Ballot,*' 
"The Rights of Purchasers," "The Rights of Pur- 
chasers and the Courts." To these the author has 
added five appendices, containing decisions of various 
courts in eases having an important bearing on the 
subject, or some part of it. Most of the material in 
the book, on the subjects of child-labor, compulsory 
education, and the dangerous trades, has been pub- 
lished before in one form or another, and is known 
in detail, or at least in part, to all who are interested 
in social reform. It is well, however, to have the 
matter formulated and united into one common prob- 
lem of the right to labor and to leisure, as it is in 
nature. Mrs. Kelley's book is, by the conditions of 
its subject, tentative. Its chief value lies in its sug- 
gestions for future improvement. 

_, ^ A volume styled " Greatness in Litr 

Pleasant paper* , A i -r» <-l 

on lUerarv eratuTC and Other Papers ( Crowell) 

theme*. consists of eight literary addresses 

prepared for various academic occasions by Professor 
"William P. Trent, and now collected for permanent 
preservation. The writer tells us that he does not 
call these papers " essays," because that term " con- 
notes to my mind a discursive charm which, per- 
haps, I could not impart to any composition." This 
statement is too modest by exactiy half, for, although 
the papers are discursive, they are undeniably 
charming, and none the less so because each one of 
them pursues a definite line of thought. Some of 
the subjects with which they deal are the question 
of literary greatness, the teaching and study of liter- 
ture, the relation of criticism to faith and of literature 
to science, and the love of poetry. Upon all these 
subjects the author has excellent things to say, and 
the manner of his discourse is both persuasive and 
engaging. His remarks upon the study of literature, 
in particular, should be taken to heart by the too 
large class of our teachers who still make literature 
a thing of terror to their students ; or, if not of 
terror, of desiccated substance and unattractive ex- 
position. "We hope that his example will induce 
others " to doubt the value of strenuous examinations 
and to appreciate more and more the necessity of 
trying to inculcate in students some of the high 
moral and spiritual truths taught by great writers, 
and to impart to them a taste for reading, a love of 
the best literature." 



The Romany 
Word-Book. 



We do not know how many of the 
readers of " Lavengro " at the present 
day have an interest in the gjl)sy 
cult in which George Borrow was an adept. For 
ourselves, the verj- sound of Romany has a sort of 
fascination which we readily pronounce in normal 
moments to be without much ground. There will 
probably be others who will be glad to see this re- 
print of the "Romano Lavo-LiL, or Word-Book of 
the English Gypsy's Language" (Putnam). The 
original, although not a raritj% is not easily found ; 
and the present issue is an excellent substitute. 
When we consider the testimony of Borrow and 



24 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 1, 



Leland to the appreciation on the part of the gypsy 
of a knowledge of the Romany tongue, we can 
easily see the value of such an introduction as this 
hook affords to the gypsy world. It is not, however, 
merely or chiefly a word-hook. It contains songs 
and stories in Romany and English, an account of 
various gypsy places of resort, and much other such 
material. Altogether it is an entertaining book, full 
of the spirit that makes " Lavengro " so attractive, 
and with a hit more of a serious definite character. 



BRIEFER MENTION. 



The John Lane Co. publish a two-volume edition of 
" The Poems of William Watson," with an introduc- 
tion by Mr. J. A. Spender. The collection omits some 
of the poems mcluded in previous volumes, makes fre- 
quent alterations in the others, and includes a consider- 
able number of new pieces. It constitutes, for the 
present at least, a definitive edition of Mr. Watson's 
work. 

A new edition of Mr. Andrew Lang's impressions of 
Oxford, with fifty illustrations by various hands, is im- 
ported by the J. B. Lippincott Company. Mr. Lang 
is such a loving interpreter of Oxford, knows the city 
so well in all its moods, and invests his studies with so 
much color and so much human interest as well, that 
his papers are no doubt extremely difficult to illustrate 
suitably. The sketches in the present edition are repro- 
duced from the etchings and drawings of nearly a dozen 
diiferent artists. Some are delightfid interpretations 
of Oxford life and scenery; others hardly deserve a 
place beside Mr. Lang's text. On the whole they add 
something, though not so much as they easily might, 
to the reader's enjoyment. 

Possibly book collectors, like poets, are bom rather 
than made, yet the innate love of books may be culti- 
tivated, or at least stimulated, by a knowledge of 
the technique of book-making. There is ample justi- 
fication, therefore, for Mr. J. Herbert Slater's " How 
to Collect Books " (Maemillan), which contains most 
informing chapters on manuscripts, paper, printing and 
printers, title-pages and colophons, book-binding and 
the famous binders, collectors and their famous collec- 
tions, book auctions, sales, and catalogues ; with admir- 
able illustrations, and a cover design copied from the 
bindings in the famous Demetrio Canevari library of 
Genoa. This volume will be foimd to contain a feast 
of good things for every book collector. 

With the publication of Dr. Samuel Bannister 
Harding's " Essentials in Mediaeval and Modern His- 
tory," the American Book Co. complete their series of 
" Essentials in History," the four volumes providing 
the full course of four years' work now given in all high 
schools of the better sort. The entire series is admir- 
ably plaimed and executed, and may be adopted in full 
confidence that no better set of books for the piurpose is 
now available. We note also in this connection the 
publication, by Messrs. Longmans, Green, & Co., of 
" A History of Mediaeval and Modern Europe," by Pro- 
fessor Henry E. Bourne, which is also a work em- 
bodying the best scholarship and the most progressive 
pedagogical ideals. Between the two books here men- 
tioned there is little to choose, and either is an immense 
improvement over anything to be had ten years ago. 



IN'OTES. 



Mr. Winston Spencer Churchill's biography of his 
father, the late Lord Randolph Churchill, will be pub- 
lished by the Maemillan Co. early in the present mouth. 

A new book from the pen of Mr. Henry Wallace 
Phillips, author of " Red Saimders," will be published 
this month by the Grafton Press. The new story is 
entitled "Mr. Scraggs," and is the personal account of 
incidents in the strenuous life of one of Red Saunders's 
friends. 

"Incidents Attending the Capture, Detention, and 
Ransom of Charles Johnston of Virginia," reprinted 
from the original edition of 1827, with editorial matter 
by Professor Edwin Erie Sparks, is published by the 
Burrows Brothers Co. in their series of " Narratives 
of Indian Captivities." 

Messrs. A. C. McClurg & Co. publish a revised edi- 
tion of " A Handbook of Modern Japan," by Mr. Ernest 
W. Clement. In its present form, this valuable work is 
brought thoroughly down to date by the addition of a 
chapter on the recently-ended war with Russia. There 
are two maps and many pictures. 

Messrs.' E. P. Dutton & Co. publish a new edition 
of " The Purple Land," by Mr. W. H. Hudson. This 
charming narrative of life in South America is now 
twenty years old, but it has never had one-tenth of the 
readers it deserves, a defect which the present edition 
may help to remedy. 

"The English Dialect Grammar," by Dr. Joseph 
Wright, is published by Mr. Henry Frowde at the 
Oxford University Press. The work is half Phonology 
and Accidence, and half Index. It includes all the 
dialects of England, Scotland, Ireland, Wales, the 
Shetlands, and the Orkneys. 

The recent death of John Bartlett, the former Bos- 
ton publisher, but better known as the compiler of 
Bartlett's " Familiar Quotations," has brought out the 
statement from his publishers that nearly a quarter of 
a million copies of tliis work have been sold since the 
first edition was published in 1855. 

Two interesting numbers of the " Cohunbia Univer- 
sity Germanic Studies " now at hand give us " Laurence 
Sterne in Germany," by Dr. Harvey Waterman Thayer, 
and " Types of Weltschmerz in German Poetry," by Dr. 
Wilhelm Alfred Braun. Holderlin, Lenau, and Heine 
are the poets selected for treatment in the last-named 
monograph. 

"Friedrich Schiller: A Sketch of his Life and an 
Appreciation of his Poetry," by Dr. Paid Cams, is an 
illustrated volume partly reprinted from " The Open 
Court," and now published from the office of that 
periodical. It is a book of popidar character, and very 
interesting in its presentation of the subject, to say 
nothing of the many illustrations. 

Mr. Ernest W. Clement, well known for his books 
on Japan, and especially his " Handbook of Modern 
Japan," has been appointed Acting Interpreter of the 
United States Legation at Toyko. Mr. Clement has 
the confidence of the Japanese government as few 
Americans have, chiefly the result of a long residence 
in Japan, and an exceptional understanding of the 
Japanese mind and habit of thought. Messrs. A. C. 
McChirg & Co. amioimce that they will issue next year 
a new edition of HUdreth's " Japan, Old and New," 
revised to date by Mr. Clement, with an interesting 
introduction by Dr. William Elliot Griffis. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



25 



Topics in Leadixg Periodicax.s. 

January. 1906. 

American Diplomacy. Francis C. Lowell. AtlaiUie. 

Balkans. Turkey vs. Europe in the. Reviexc of Review*. 

Caddis- Worm, The Xet-Making. H. C. McCook. Harper. 

Canadian Progress, Year of. J. P. Gerrie. Review of Reviews 

Carnegie International Art Exhibition. The. World Today. 

Catalytic Chemical Processes. R. K. Duncan. Harper. 

Chicago Faces, Impressions from. L. H. B. Knox. AUantie. 

China, Awakening of. W. A. P. Martin. World'* Work. 

China. The Xew. Adachi Kinnosuke. Forum. 

Chinese Boycott. The. John W. Foster. Atlantic. 

Chinese Press of Today. A. R. Colquhonn. North Ameriean. 

Colombia, Remaking of. E. H. Mason. World Today. 

Cotton Growers, The. Arthur W. Page. World'* Work. 

Engineer Corps in the Navy, Plea for an. North A merican. 

England's Unemployed. Agnes C. Lant. Review of Review*. 

Esperanto : the Universal Language. A. Schinz. Atlantic. 

Europe, Premiers of. O. D. Skelton. World Today. 

Far East, Am. Democracy in. John Foreman. No. Ameriean. 

Farming as a Business Enterprise. Review of Review*. 

Football,— Shall It Be Ended or Mended » Review of Review*. 

Football. Taming. Shailer Mathews. World Today. 

Franklin in France. John Hay. Century. 

Franklin's Trials as a Benrfactor. Emma Repplier. Lippineott. 

Ghost in Fiction, The. T. R. Sullivan. Atlantic. 

Hungarian Emigration Law. Louis de L§vay. North Ameriean. 

Indian Music of South America. C. J. Post. Harper. 

Indian's Yoke. The. Frances C. Sparhawk. North Ameriean. 

Insurance Millions. Irresponsible. World's Work. 

Insurance, State, New Zealand. W. P. Reeves. No. Ameriean. 

Irving, Henry. An Impression of. E. S. Xadal. Scribner. 

Japan. Financial, after the War. Baron Shibusawa. JForutn. 

Japan, Leaders of. Mary C. Fraser. World'* Work. 

Labor Union. Reforming a. V. E. Soares. World Today. 

Legislation. Special. Samuel P. Orth. Atlantic. 

Liberals. Victory of the. W. T. Stead. Review of Review*. 

Lucin Cut-Off. The. Oscar K. Davis. Century. 

Mexico. City of. Legends of the. T. A. Janvier. •^arp«-. 

Mexico's Great Finance Minister. Rafael Reyes. No. Amer. 

Morality. Our Anxious. Maurice Maeterlinck. Atlantic. 

Northwest. The Great. Cyrus Northrop. World Today. 

Paris. Americanization of. A. H. Ford. World Today. 

Politics. Honest, Great Victory for. W. MacVeagh. No. Amer. 

Porto Rico Industrial Progress. Beekman Winthi op. JVb.^m«r. 

Porto Rico, Our Experience in. World's Work. 

Powers, The, and the Settlement. T. F. MiUard. Scribner. 

Preface. The. Edward K. Broadus. Atlantic. 

Quay, Fall of. I. M. Marcosson. WorlcVs Work. 

Railway Rates and Industrial Progress. S. Spencer. Century. 

Rate-Making by Congressional Committee. North American. 

Russia's Economic Future. Wolf von Schierbrand. JTorum. 

Scientific Research Organization. Simon Newcomb. No. Amer. 

Sea Voyagers of the North. A. C. Laut. Harper. 

Senate. The— of Special Interests. World's Work. 

South America, What People Read in. Review of Review*. 

Southwestward March. The. French Strother. World's Work. 

State, Redeveloping an Old. Review of Review*. 

Strikes and Lockouts of 1905. V.S. Yarros. Review of Review*. 

Surplus, a— Is it a Menace or Security ? Lippineott. 

Taft Commission, Outcome of the. J.A. LeRoy. World Today. 

Telephone, The Far-Flung. Ralph Bergengren. World Today. 

Territories, Last of the. M. G. Cunniff. World'* Work. 

Trusts. Plan for Regulating. J. F. Cronan. North Ameriean. 

Tsar. The Real. W. T. Stead. World Today. 

University Presidency, The. Andrew S. Draper. Atlantic. 

Wapita. The, and his Antlers. E. Thompson Seton. Scribner. 

Winter Bouquet, A. Frank French. Century. 



I.IST OF Xeav Books. 

[The foUotcing list, containing 67 tides, includes books 
received by The Dial since its last issm*.] 

BIOGRAPHY AKD REMINISCENCES. 

RecoUections. By William O'Brien, M.P. With photo- 
gravure portraits, large 8vo. gilt top, pp. 518. MacmiUan 
Co. $3.50 net. 

Portraits of the Eighteenth Century, Historic and Lit- 
erary. By C. A. Sainte-Beuve : trans, by Katharine P. 
Wormeley ; with critical introduction by Edmond Scherer. 
In 2 vols.. Ulus.. large Svo, gilt tops, uncut. G. P. Putnam's 
Sons. Per vol.. $2.50 net. 



Julian the Apostate. By Gaetano Negri; trans, from the 

second Italian edition by the Duchess Litta-Visconti-Arese ; 

with introduction by Professor Pasquale VUlarL In 2 vols., 

illus. in photogravure, etc, large Svo, gilt tops, uncut. 

Charles Scribner's Sons, $5. net. 
The L>ife of Sir Henry Vane, the Yoimger; with a History 

of the Events of his Time. By WUliam W. Ireland. Illus.. 

Svo, uncut, pp. 513. Edinburgh : Oliver & Boyd. 
'Vikings of the Pacific: The Adventures of the Explorers 

Who Came from the West, Eastward. By A. C. Lant. Illus.. 

12mo. gUt top. pp. 349. MacmiUan Co. $2. net. 
John Fletcher Hurst. By Albert Osbom. nius.. Svo, gilt 

top. uncut, pp. 509. Eaton & Mains. $2. net. 
Augustas: The Life and Times of the Foimder of the Roman 

Empire (B.C. 63 — A.D. 14). By E. S. Shuckburgh, Litt. D. 

nius., 12mo, pp. 318. A. Wessels Co. $1.50 net. 
The Memories of Rose Eytinge: Being Recollections and 

Observations of Men, Women, and Events during Half a 

Century. Illus., 12mo, pp. 311. Frederick A. Stokes Co. 

$1.20 net. 
Rossell H. Conwell, Founder of the Institutional Church in 

America: The Work and the Man. By Agnes Rush Burr; 

with introduction by Floyd W. Tomkins, D.D. nius., 12iiio. 

pp. 363. John C. Winston Co. $1. 

HISTORY. 
Salve VenetJa: Gleanings from Venetian History. By Francis 

Marion Crawford ; Ulus. by Joseph Pennell. In 2 vols., Svo, 

gUt tops. MacmiUan Co. to. net. 
Sailors' Narratives of Voyages along the New England Coast, 

1524-1624. With notes by Goorge Parker Winship. Large 

Svo, uncut, pp. 292. Houghton, Mifflin & Co. $8. net. 
A History of Modem England. By Herbert Paul. Vol. IV., 

large Svo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 409. MacmiUan Co. $2.50 net. 
The Abolitionists. Together with Personal Memories of the 

Struggle for Human Rights, 1830-64. By John F. Hume. 

12mo. pp. 224. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $1.25 net. 

GENERAL LITERATTJRE. 
On Ten Plays of Shakespeare. By Stopford A. Brooke. Svo, 

gUt top, imcut. pp. 311. Henry Holt & Co. $2.25 net. 
Counsels and Ideals from the Writings of William Osier. 

12mo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 277. Houghton. Mifflin & Co. 

$1.25 net. 
The Greek View of Ufe. By G. Lowes Dickinson, M.A. 

12mo. pp. 236. McClure. Phillips &, Co. $1. net. 
Oeorge Bernard Shaw: His Plays. By Henry L. Mencken. 

12mo. pp. 107. John W. Luce & Co. $1. 
The Author's Apologr from " airs. Warren's Profession." 

By G. Bernard Shaw; with introduction by John Corbin. 

16mo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 66. Brentano's. 60 cts. net. 
The Girl with the Green Eyes: A Play in Four Acts. By 

Clyde Fitch. 16mo.gilt top. pp.200. MacmiUanCo.75cts.net. 

NEW EDITIONS OF STANDARD lilTERATTJRE. 

The lietters'of Horace "Walpole, Fourth Earl of Orford. 
Chronologically arranged and edited by Mrs. Paget Toyn- 
bee. Vols, xm., XIV., and XVI. With photogravure por- 
traits, 12mo, gUt tops, uncut. Oxford University Press. 

The Plays and Poems of Christopher Marlowe. With 
photogravure frontispiece. 18mo, gilt top, pp. 510. Charles 
Scribner's Sons. Leather. $1.25 net. 

BOOKS OF VERSE. 
New World Lyrics and Btdlads. By Duncan CampbeU 

Scott- 12mo, gUt top, uncut, pp. 66. Toronto: Morang & 

Co. 60 cts. 
The Dream Child, and Other Verses. By Norma K. Bright. 

12mo, gUt top, uncut, pp. 80. Grafton Press. $1. net. 
The "WUd Huntsman : A Legend of the Hartz. By JuUus 

Wolff; trans from the German by Ralph Davidson, nius. 

in photogravure, etc., Svo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 224. G. P. 

Putnam's Son's. $1.50 net. 
A Ballad of the "White Ship, and Other Poems. By William 

Noble Roundy. 12mo, pp. 104. Chicago : Thomas P. Halpin. 
Musings and Memories. By Timothy Edward Howard. 

12mo, pp. 65. Chicago : Lakeside Press. 

FICTION. 
Minna, Wife of the Young Rabbi. By Wilhelmina Wittig- 
schlager. nius., 12mo, pp. 345. ConsoUdated RetaU Book- 
seUers. $1.50. 



26 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 1, 



A Reneg-ade, and Other Tales. By Martha Wolfenstein. 12mo, 

pp. 322. Jewish Publication Society. $1.25. 
Frozen Dog- Tales, and Other Things. By Col. Wm. C. Hunter. 

Illus., 16mo,pp. 188. Boston : Everett Press Co. $1. 

TRAVEL AND DESCRIPTION. 

Canada as It Is. By John Foster Fraser. Illus., 12mo, pp. 303. 

Cassell & Co. $2. 
Ethiopia in Exile : Jamaica Revisited. By B. Pullen-Burry. 

12mo, pp. 288. A. Wessels Co. $1.50. 

RELIGION. 

The Philosophy of Religion : A Critical and Speculative 
Treatise of Man's Religious Experience and Development in 
the Light of Modern Science and Reflective Thinking. By 
George Trumbull Ladd, LL.D. In 2 vols. , large 8vo. Charles 
Scribner's Sons. $7. net. 

The Work of Preaching : A Book for the Class-Room and 
Study. By Arthur S. Hoyt, D.D. 12mo, uncut, pp. 355. 
Macmillan Co. $1.50 net. 

Egoism : A Study in the Social Premises of Religion. By Louis 
Wallis. 16mo, pp. 121. University of Chicago Press. $1. net. 

The Illustrative Lesson Notes for 1906. By John T. Mc- 
Farland and Robert Remington Doherty. Illus., 8vo, pp. 382. 
Eaton & Mains. $1.25. 

POLITICS. — ECONOMICS. - SOCIOLOGY. 

The Re-shaping of the Far East. By B. L. Putnam Weale. 

In 2 vols., Ulus., large 8vo, gilt tops. Macmillan Co. $6. net_ 
Irish History and the Irish Question. By Goldwin Smith. 

8vo, pp. 270. McClure, Phillips & Co. $1.50 net. 
Frenzied Finance. By Thomas W. Lawson. Vol. I., The 

Crime of Amalgamated. With photogravure portrait, 8vo, 

pp. 559. New York : Ridgway- Thayer Co. $1.50. 
The New Idolatry, and Other Discussions. By Washington 

Gladden. 16mo, gilt top, pp. 263. McClure, Phillips & Co. 

$1.20 net. 
Ilodel Factories and Villages: Ideal Conditions of Labour 

and Housing. By Budgett Meakin. Illus., 8vo, uncut, 

pp. 480. A. Wessels Co. $1.90 net. 
Social Theories and Social Facts. By William Morton 

Qrinnell. 12mo, pp. 146. "Questions of the Day." Q. P. 

Putnam's Sons. $1. net. 

ART AND MUSIC. 

The History of American Painting. By Samuel Isham. 
Illus. in photogravure, etc., large 8vo, gilt top, pp. 573. 
" History of American Art." Macmillan Co. $5. net. 

Eng^lish Furniture. By Frederick S. Robinson. Illus. in 
photogravure, large 8vo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 348. "Con- 
noisseur's Library." G. P. Putnam's Sons. $6.75 net. 

Royal Academy Pictures, 1905. Illus. in photogravure, etc., 
large 4to, gilt edges, pp. 175. Cassell & Co. $3. net. 

Drawings of A. von Menzel. Text by Prof. H. W. Singer. 
4to. " Modern Master Draughtsmen." Charles Scribner's 
Sons. $2.50 net. 

The Book of Photography: Practical, Theoretic, and Ap- 
plied. Edited by Paul N. Hasluck. Illus., large 8vo, pp. 775. 
Cassell & Co. ^. 

Photogrrams of the Year 1905: Typical Photographic Pic- 
tures of the Year Reproduced and Criticised. Compiled by 
the editors and staff of " The Photographic Monthly," 
assisted by A. C. R. Carter. Illus., large 8vo, pp. 160. New 
York : Tennant & Ward. Paper. 

The Story of Organ Music. By C. F. Abdy Williams, M.A. 
Illus, in photogravure, etc., 12mo, gilt top. uncut, pp. 300. 
" Music Story Series." Charles Scribner's Sons. $1.25 net. 

NATURE AND SCIENCE. 

The Tree Book: A Popular Guide to a Knowledge of the Trees 
of North America and to their Uses and Cultivation. By 
Julia Ellen Rogers. Illus. in color, etc., 4to, uncut, pp. 588. 
Doubleday, Page & Co. $4. net. 

Life and Matter : A Criticism of Professor Haeckel's " Riddle 
of the Universe." By Sir Oliver Lodge. 12mo, pp. 175. 
G. P. Putnam's Sons. $1. net. 

Fishes I Have Known. By Arthur H. Beavan. Illus., 12mo, 
gilt top, pp. 279. A. Wessels Co. $1.25. 

Twenty-Third Annual Report of the Bureau of Ameri- 
can Ethnology, 1901-2. By J. W. Powell, Director. Illus. 
in color, etc., 4to, pp. 634. Government Printing Office. 



BOOKS OF REFERENCE. 

Lippincott's New Gazetteer. Edited by Angelo and Louis 
Heilprin. Large 8vo, pp. 2053. J. B. Lippincott Co. $10. net. 

The American Catalog, 1900-4. Large 8vo, pp. 1500. New 
York : Office of The Publishers' Weekly. 

A Check List of Mammals of the North American Continent, 
the West Indies, and the Neighboring Seas. By Daniel 
Giraud Elliot, F.R.S.E. Illus., large 8vo, uncut, pp. 761. 
Chicago: Field Columbian Museum. Paper. 

List of the Benjamin Franklin Papers in the Library of 
Congress. Compiled under the direction of Worthington 
Chauncey Ford. 4to, uncut, pp. 322. Government Printing 
Office. 

BOOKS FOR THE YOUNG. 

New Games and Amusements. By Meredith Nugent and 

Victor J. Smedley. Illus., 8vo, pp. 266. Doubleday, Page 

& Co. $1.50 net. 
The Wonderful Wishes of Jacky and Jean. By Mary A. 

Dickerson. Illus., 4to, pp. 146. A. Wessels Co. $1. 
Once upon a Time: Fairy Tales. Trans, from the Italian 

of Luigi Capuana. Illus., 18mo, pp. 218. " The Children's 

Library." A. Wessels Co. 40 cts. 

EDUCATION. 

Model English Prose. Compiled and edited by George R. 
Carpenter. 12mo, pp. 382. Macmillan Co. 90 cts. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Cassell's Physical Educator. By Eustace Miles, M.A. Illus., 
large 8vo, pp. 756. Cassell & Co. $2.50. 

Haida Texts and Mjrths, Skidegate Dialect. Recorded by 
John R. Swanton. Large 8vo, pp. 448. Government Print- 
ing Office. 

Right Thinking and Wrong Thinking, and their Results. 
By Aaron Martin Crane. 12mo, gilt top, pp. 361. Lothrop, 
Lee & Shepard Co. $1.40 net. 

Heredity and Early Environment of John Williams, 
■"The Redeemed Captive." By George Sheldon. 12mo 
pp. 160. Boston : W. B. Clarke Co. $1.25 net. 

Report of the Librarian of Congress for the Fiscal Year 
Ending June 30, 1905. Illus., large 8vo, i)p. 318. Govern- 
ment Printing Office. 

What of It." By Nettie Seeley Murphy. Illus., 12mo, gilt top, 
uncut, pp. 79. J. B. Lippincott Co. $1. net. 

The Lewis Carroll Birthday Book. Compiled by Christine 
Terhime Herrick. 18mo, pp. 150. A. Wessels Co. 75 cts. 

ROOK^S ALL OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS SUPPLIED, 
Mjy^yjty-*-y* no matter on what subject. Write us. We can get 
you any book erer published. Please state wants. Catalogue free. 
BAKERS GREAT BOOK-SHOP, 14-16 Bright St., Birmingham, Eno. 



FOR ANY BOOK ON EARTH write to H. H. TIMBV, 

Book Hunter. Catalogues free. 1st Nat. Bank Bldg., Conneaut, O. 



WE Are Out on the Kansas Prairie 

where everything is cheap except our finished product — that's the 
beat. If you have a book to print let us figure with you before con- 
tracting. Send for our booklet, " Hints to Publishers." Appeal 
Publishing Co., Girard Kansas. 



William R. Jenkins 

851 & 853 Sixth Ave. (cor. 48th St.),N. Y. 
No Branch Store* 
Choice 

French 

Calendars 

for 1906 

With daily quotations from 
the best French authors at 
prices— 40c., 50c., 60c., 75c., 
$1.00, $1.25, and $1.50, each, 
postpaid. 



A List of 

French Books 

suitable for Holiday Gifts will be 
sent free when requested ; also 
complete catalogues of all French 
Books if desired. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



27 



A LARGE PRINTING OFFICE '^ f qw^n ^'' 

Locawd in a town of less than 3,000. Employ 130 skilled workmen. 
If you have a book to print writ* us for terms and booklet, " Hiota 
to Publishers," before contracting. Appeal Publishing Co., 
Girard, Kansas. 

STORY- WRITERS, Biographers, Hl8tori«n». Poet* -Do 

— — — — ^^^^— ^^^^ you desire the honest criticism of your 
book, or its skilled revision and correction, or advice as to publication ? 
Such work, said George William Curtis, is " done as it should be by The 
Easy Chair's friend and fellow laborer in letters, Dr. Titus M. Coan." 
Terms by agreement. Send for circular D, or forward your book or MS. 
to the New Vork Bureau of Revision, 70 Fifth Are., New York. 

LIBRARY RESEARCH 

'T'OPICS of aU kinds and in any language looked up in large libraries 
-*- for scholars, writers, and others, who have not at hand the books 
needed in preparing theses, lectures, addresses, club papers, books 
or articles for publication, or in any piece of investigation. Highest 
university and library references. 
Miss M. H. BUCKINGHAM, No. 96 Chestnut Street, Bostoh, Mjlbb. 



PUBLIC AND PRIVATE LIBRARIES 

A trained librarian with wide experience and highest university and 
library references is open to engagements for Bibliographical work, 
inrestigating, indexing, organizing, cataloguing, and classifying. 
Address for t«mu, MART E. COMBS, 736 E. FuUerton Ave., Chicago. 

THE HURST IMPRINT 

on a book denotes the best Talne for the least outlay. 

Holiday Catalogne of Popular and Standard Publications 

now ready. 

SElfr TO AlfYOSB UPOy REQUEST 

HURST & CO. Publishers NEW YORK 

LET US PRINT YOUR BO OKSI yf^<^io 

^— — — ^^^— — ^-^— — ^^— ^^— .^^-^^^-^ It much 
cheaper and as good as other printers. Our plant is the largest of its 
kind in the United States. Before contracting write us for our terms 
and booklet, "Hints to Publishers." Appeal Publishing Co., 
Girard, Kansas. 



The QTI inPRAICFP ^^^ Story of Massachusetts 

^ * ^ I--/l_-^Uxm.lVl— ^IV ; Eieht new leaflets are iust added to the Old South series. 



fine Sittsi Butldtng 

Michigan Boalevard, between Congress and 
Van Bnren Streets, Chicago. 



HEXRT W. SAVAGE OFFERS 

WOODLAND 

WITH 

HARRY BULGER 



THE BOOKS 
OF ALL PUBLISHERS 

are carried in our stock, 
which is larger and more 
general than that of any 
Other house in the country. 

LIBRARY ORDERS 

given prompt and intelligent 
service. Our large stock 
and extensive library expe- 
rience enables us to give 
valuable aid and advice to 
libraries and librarians. 

CATALOGUE CARDS and 
CARD CABINETS 

We carry a special line and 
will be glad to furnish a 
price list. 

LIBRARY DEPARTMENT 

A. C. McCLU RG & CO. 

CHICAGO 



Eight new leaflets are just added to the Old South series, 
on dlGPerent phases of this subject. Among them are, The 
Voyage of the Majrflower ; The Lexington Town Meetings 
from 1765 to 1775 ; The Lowell Offering, 1845 ; Governor 
Andrew's Address to the Legislature, 1881 ; Selections from 
the Poems of Anne Bradstreet. 

Send for complete lists. 

Price, 5 cents a copy. $4 per 100. 



DIRECTORS OF OLD SOUTH WORK 

Old South Meeting House 
WASMINQTON STREET, BOSTON 



THE COMPLETE WRITINGS OF 

ALFRED DE MUSSET 

Illustrated, large paper edition, tn 
Ten Volumes. 
"A writer who baa endowed our language with admirable 
poetry, the brother of Lamartine, of Hago, and of Byron, a 
noTeliat riraling Prerost, Balzac, and George Sand; a dramatiat 
who, in one act, haa made the Comedie Fran^aise earn more 
money than we give it in six months ; one of those thinkers 
who has nerer once sacrificed the dignity of art to the ambitions 
of fortune and positi<m." ALKXAKDRB DUMAS. 

BOOKLET MAILED ON APPLICATION 

EDWIN C. HILL COMPANY 

160 FIFTH AVENUE NEW YORK CITY 



LIBRARY SERVICE 

We aim to serve librarians with the greatest efficiency. 

WE HAVE 

(1) Competent and thoroughly equipped book men. 

(2) The largest miscellaneous book stock in New 

York City. 

(3) A valuable line of order lists, as follows : 

(A) Monthly Bulletin of the Latest and Best 

Selling Books. 

(B) Standard Librarv- Catalogue. 

(C) Clearance Catalogues. 

DO YOU GET THESE ? SENT FREE 

THE BAKER & TAYLOR CO., WhoUzaU Booksellers 

33-37 East I7th St.. Union Sq.. North, New York 



28 


THE DIAL [Jan. 1,1906. 

• 




PERIODICALS 


PUBLISHED BY 

THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO PRESS 



THE BIBLICAL WORLD Edited by PresidentWiLLiAMR. Harper. A popular illastrated monthly magazine. 
Subscription price, $2.00 a year ; single copies, 25 cts. Foreign postage, 75 cts. 

THE SCHOOL REVIEW Published monthly except in July and August. Subscription price, $1.50 a year ; 
single copies, 20 cts. Foreign postage, 50 cts. 

THE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL TEACHER Edited by Wilbur S. Jackman and Bertha Payne. 
Published monthly, except in July and August, with illustrations. Subscription price, $1.50 a year; single copies, 
20 cts. Foreign postage, 50 cts. 

THE BOTANICAL GAZETTE Edited by John M. Coulter and Charles R. Barnes. Published monthly 
with illustrations. Subscription price, $5.00 a year ; single copies, 50 cts. Foreign postage, 75 cts. 

THE AMERICAN JOURNAL OF SOCIOLOGY Edited by Albion W. Small. Published bi-monthly. 
Subscription price, $2.00 a year ; single copies, 50 cts. Foreign postage, 50 cts. 

THE JOURNAL OF GEOLOGY Edited by Thomas C. Chamberlain. Published semi-qnarterly, with 
illustrations. Subscription price, $3.00 a year ; single copies, 50 cts. Foreign postage, 75 ets. 

THE ASTROPHYSICAL JOURNAL Edited by George E. Hale and Edwin B.Frost. Published 
monthly, except in February and August, with illustrations. Subscription price, $4.00 a year ; single copies, 
50 cts. Foreign postage, 75 ets. 

THE JOURNAL OF POLITICAL ECONOMY Edited by J. Laurence Laughlin. Published 
monthly. Subscription price, $3.00 a year ; single copies, 35 cts. Foreign postage, 50 cts. 

THE AMERICAN JOURNAL OF THEOLOGY Edited by the Divinity Faculty of the University of 
Chicago. Published quarterly. Subscription price, $3.00 a year ; single copies, $1.00. Foreign postage, 50 cts. 

THE AMERICAN JOURNAL OF SEMITIC LANGUAGES AND LITERATURES 

Edited by President William R. Harper and Robert F. Harper. Published quarterly. Subscription price, 
$4.00 ; single copies, $1.25. Foreign postage, 25 cts. 

THE UNIVERSITY RECORD Edited by the Recorder of the University. Published quarterly. Subscrip- 
tion price, $1.00 ; single copies, 25 cts. Foreign postage, 25 cts. 

THE CLASSICAL JOURNAL Arthur Fairbanks and Gordon J. Laing, Managing Editors. Published 
eight times a year under the auspices of the Classical Association of the Middle West and South. Subscription 
price, $2.00 a year ; single copies, 30 cts. Foreign postage, 25 cts. 

CLASSICAL PHILOLOGY Edward Capps, Managing Editor. Published quarterly. Subscription price, 
$3.00 a year ; single copies, $1.00. Foreign postage, 50 cts. 

MODERN PHILOLOGY Philip S. Allen, Managing Editor. Published quarterly. Subscription price, $3.00 
a year; single copies, $1.00. Foreign postage, 50 cts. 

DEPARTMENT 20 

THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO PRESS 

CHICAGO or NEW YORK 



RARE BOOKS 

We want the names of buyers of Americana, 
First Editions, and Standard Literature, 
throughout the Country. 

Catalogues sent upon request. Correspondence Solicited. 



Niel Morrow Ladd Book Co. 

644 FULTON STREETo BROOKLYN, N. Y. 



30,000 Volumes 



AUTHORIZED DEFINITIVE EDITION 
The Complete Works of 

ABRAHAM LINCOLN 

Edited by 
John G. Nicolay and John Hay 

Containing all new material discovered to date. 
Full particulars and 

LINCOLN'S AUTOBIOGRAPHY 

sent FREE to responsible parties upon request. 

FRANCIS D. TANDY COMPANY 
Dept. C — 38 East 21st Street New York 



THE DIAL PBESS, FINE AKT3 BUILDINO, CHICAOO 



(Public LiVfiuiT,) 




^ SEMI-MONTHLY JOURNAL OF 

Jiltrarg Critirism, gisrnssion, antr lirformation. 



Edited by 
FRANCIS F. BROWNE 



} ''iTiro^^' CHICAGO, JAN. 16, 1906. 



lOcU.a copy 



■{ 



Fdte Abts Buiu>iNe 
203 Michigan Blvd. 



THE LIFE OF JAMES ANTHONY FROUDE 

By HERBERT PAUL 

" The biographer has erected a monument which reflects high credit on the builder. For lightness of touch, for grace 
and distinction, the style is suggestive of Fronde's own." — New York Sun. 

" It must hold the position of being the last as well as the first bic^raphy of F^oude — a position of literary import- 
ance for all time to come." — London Graphic. 

Illustrated. *4.00 net. 



THE RUSSIAN COURT IN 
THE 18TH CENTURY 

By FITZGERALD MOLLOY 

A brilliant and accurate account of this most amazing 
court at its most interesting period, with a number of 
excellent portraits. A striking and entertaining work 
of great historical value. 

Illustrated. 2 volumes. $6.00 net. 



MARY QUEEN OF 
SCOTS 

By T. F. HENDERSON 

A vivid and illuminating presentation of the personality 
and career of Mary Stuart, with remarkable reproduc- 
tions of more than fifteen portraits of her, and other 
illustrations. 

Illustzated. 2 volumes. $6.00 net. 



THE CITY: The Hope of Democracy 

By FREDERIC C. HOWE 

•' It will be found to be extremely stimulating reading." — Boston Transcript. " A sane and sincere treatment of an 
urgent subject." — St. Paul Dispatch. " A notable contribution to an important branch of Political Science." 

— Chicago Becord -Herald. 
$1..50 net. Postage, 13 cents. 



NEW RELIGIOUS BOOKS 
THE PROBLEM OF THE OLD TESTAMENT 

By JAMES ORR, D.D. 

This book was awarded the Bross Prize at Lake Forest College, 1905. 

An able and illuminating study of the subject of the greatest interest and value to laymen as well as to students. 
One of the most important books of the year. 

$1.50 net. Postage extra. 



COMPARATIVE RELIGION : Its Genesis and Growth 

By LOUIS HENRY JORDAN, B.D. 

Late Special Lecturer in Comparative Religion at the Univeraty of Chicago. 

" I commend this book as an introduction to a great study. . . . For the many studious men who seek to know the 
religions, it ought to have a distinct value ; it will not disappoint one who follows it with an open mind, a quick 



imagination, and an appreciative spirit. "- 



-Principal A. M. F.-ukbairx. 
*:3..50 net. 



CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS, PUBLISHERS, NEW YORK 



30 THE DIAL [Jan. 16, 1906. 



Important New Macmillan Books 



JUST R'EADY 

Mr. William Holman Hunt's reminiscent 

Pre=RaphaeIitism and the Pre=Raphaelite Brotherhood 

The work will be unifoi-m with the " Memorials of Edward Burne-Jones," published last fall. 
It will be devoted to the lives and work of that little band of men who did more than any other 
to restore life and vitality and meaning to English art during the last century. 

Two volumes, richly illtistrated, $10.00 net' 

Mr. Winston Spencer Churchill's Life of Lord Randolph Churchill 

The lively anticipations expressed since it was announced justify the publishers in presenting 
this work as the most important biography of the present season. Thi'ough a conspicuous 
career, Lord Randolph ChurchiU held the threads of the actual inner working of the modern 
British political machine, and the book is an adequate appreciation of one of the most striking 
figfures of the past century in English public life. 

Two 8vo volumes in a box. Price of the set, $9.00 net (carriage extra). 

Mr. F. Marion Crawford's Salve Venetia ! Gleanings from History 

" These two volumes, rich in anecdote and story, packed with legend and fact gleaned from 
Venetian history, make interesting reading. . . . The make-up of the book is most attractive, 
and it is beautifully and lavishly illustrated with 225 drawings by Joseph Pennell . . . and 
they render admirably the picturesque quality of Venice." — The Evening Post (New York). 

Two volumes in a box, crown 8vo, $5.00 net (carriage extra). 

Mr. Samuel Isham's History of American Painting 

" The most important art book of the season is Mr. Isham's ' History of American Painting,' 
which has been looked forward to with interest for some time. Those of his acquaintance have 
long known Mr. Isham's exceptional fitness for his task. Himself a painter of respectable 
achievement and equipped with the necessary technical knowledge and the painter's point of 
view, he is also a man of unusual breadth of vision and of sympathy, of keen intellect and 
sound judgment, kindly of temper and with a genial humor, altogether honest, quite without 
jealousy, and as nearly without prejudice or bias as is possible to human nature. It was 
expected to be good; but it is even better than was expected." — The Nation. 

Uniform with Toft's " Sculpture,'* in a box, $5.00 net. 

Mr. B. L Putnam=Weale's The Re=Shaping of the Far East 

" Whether the outcome is in accordance with his predictions or not, it cannot be denied that he 
has made in the two bulky volumes before us a remarkably searching, analytical, clear and 
comprehensive presentation of what is on the surface, and beneath it as well, an intricately 
complicated and perplexing situation. . . . Withal, there has been nothing printed so far that 
so minutely dissects and so lucidly demonstrates the complex organism of Oriental diplomacy." 
— The New York Tribune. 

Cloth, 8vo, illustrated from fine photographs. 

Two volumes in a box, $6.00 net (carriage extra). 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY, PUBLISHERS, 64-66 FIFTH AVE., NEW YORK 



THE DIAL 

a Snni=fHontf)l2 3oumaI of iitcrarg Criticism, Disnission, anlj lintormatiotu 



THE DIAL (founded in ISSO) i* publUhed on the Itt and 16th 
of each month. Tekms of SuBscBiFTioir,^. a i/eart nod ran««. 
pottage prepaid in the United State*, Canada, and Mexico; 
in other- countries comprised in the Postal Union, 50 cents a 
year for extra postage vixut be added. Rbmittancbs should 
be by check, or by express or postal order, payable to THE 
I) I A L COM PA X Y. Un less otherwise ordered, subscriptions 
will begin with the current number. When no direct request 
to discontinue at expiration of subscription is received, it is 
assumed that a continuance of the subscription is desired. 
Advebtisinq Rates furnished on applicatiot^. A II communi- 
cations should be addressed to 

THE DIAL, Fine Arts Building, Chicago. 

ENTERED AT THE CHICAGO POSTOFFICB AS SEOOXD-CXASS MATTER 
BY THE DIAL OOMPASY, PCBI.ISHKBS. • 



No. 470. 



JANUARY 16, 1906. 



Vol. XL. 



Contexts. 

FA6« 

ACADEMIC WELFARE 31 

A YEAR OF CONTDfENTAL LITERATURE — I. 34 

co^D^I^^CATION 36 

ilr. Swinburne's Poetry. Henry S. Pancoast. 

AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF AN IRISH PATRIOT. 

Percy F. BickneU 37 

PROVENCE: ITS HISTORY. ART. AND LTTER- 

ATURK Josiah Renidc Smith 30 

A RE-VALUATION OF SCHILLER. Starr WiUard 

Cutting 41 

SEA POWER AND THE WAR OF 1812. Anna 

Heloise Abel 45 

THE GREATEST OF MODERN GARDENERS. 

Thomas H. Macbride 47 

BRIEFS ON NEW BOOKS 48 

Still another volnme abont the Philippines. — A 
famous Republican statesman. — President Roose- 
velt as a hunter. — Pictures of court life under 
Louis Xr\*. — Memories of our Augustan age. — 
Addresses from a lawyer's busy life. — A lyrist of 
the English commonwealth. — Two g^irls in a con- 
vent. — An American admiral of the Civil War. — 
Entertai n i n g chapters on great novelists. — Illus- 
trations of the methods of Balzac. 

BRIEFER MENTION 52 

NOTES 52 

LIST OF NEW BOOKS 53 



ACADEMIC WELFARE. 



It is hardly in accord \nth the national tem- 
per to take alarm at any threatening aspect of 
the cultural atmosphere. Few are weatherwise 
in such matters ; and the influences that are 
precipitated upon the street from these tenuous 
realms make little impression in contrast with 
the more practical predictions of the local 
weather bureau. K the nation's nutrition is 
endangered, and it is given out that the wheat 
crop is under the weather, the news is learnedly 
disciLSsed from Cabinet to comer-grocery ; and 
if the national circidation is feverish, physicians 
are simimoned to take the patients temperature 
with a Wall Street thermometer, and crowds 
gather alx)ut the hourly bulletins. But the 
most jaimdiced of yellow sheets would not add 
two points to the cubits of its headlines to report 
symtoms suggestive of academic disquietude. 
One must not intrude topics of the soul during 
business hours ; and corporations proverbially 
dispense \s-ith the presence of that vmcongenial 
monitor. Even those for whom the things of the 
spirit have a meaning — and our ILst of educa- 
tional benefactions is creditable, — as well as 
those who are more directively entrusted with 
their management, reflect the national optimism 
that does not deal kindly with Cassandras of 
either sex. If things have come to such a pass 
that the trimnphant screech of the eagle must be 
momentarily hushed, our choice goes out to the 
presumably cheerful if deluded ostrich rather 
than to the croaking raven ; and if dangers 
grow so inconsiderately obviovLS that we are con- 
stantly stumbling against them, we have only 
to remember that "Christian Science" is an 
American discovery. 

One need not incur the odium of suggesting 
that the brains of the nation are segregated in 
the institutions of learning by recognizing that 
our Colleges and Universities represent the best 
organized provisions for keeping aglow the torch 
of cidture and handing it on with undiminished 
brilliance to those that come after. In the 
aggregate, the efifect produced upon the intel- 
lectual ideals and activities of the race by the 
influences that find origin and support in Uni- 
versity centres is sufficient to impart a national 



32 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 16, 



significance to any conditions that seriously 
affect the acaxleniic welfare. The gathering- 
clouds betoken tliat the storm is likely to break 
most centrally over the discussion of the rela- 
tions of furtherance or hindrance that have come 
to exist between the administrative provisions 
for maintaining the life of Universities and the 
miderlying purposes for which Universities ex- 
ist. On so broad a question it doubtless behooves 
one to be content with moderate sympathy of 
aim and to be reconciled to some differences in 
measures. The response of mingled approval 
and dissent that woidd go out to any worthy 
pronoimcement anent this issue, woidd probably 
not have been sufficiently disturbing to ex- 
change silence for speech ; but when a singvdarly 
specious and unwholesome utterance upon the 
subject of the University Presidency finds place 
in a company where all places are honorable, 
we confess to a reaction of protest that will out. 
The catchword under which "The Atlantic 
Monthly " — usually a reliable fount of good 
sense, graceful statement, and eidightening 
ideals — heralds this untimely message, is itself 
irritating. " Why professors shoidd teach and 
not acbninistrate " has a suspicious sound ; and 
it is not unexpected to find that the real issue 
thus evasively presented is whether the Uni- 
versity Professor is to be a helpless hireling 
who cannot call his soid his own, or whether he 
is to be an independent scholar whose needs are 
properly met and whose services are fitly 
esteemed ; whether he is to find at hand, or 
himself aid to develop, an environment in which 
the acatlemic spirit can live and have a being, 
or whether he must be sadly content to expend 
his life-efforts under conditions needlessly un- 
favorable to the fruitage of what it lies in him 
to bear. It is the ever-vital question of what 
shall be first and what last, or even second. 
Compromise cannot always be in one direction 
without the complete surrender of one interest ; 
and fairy godmothers cannot be counted upon to 
intervene to restore CindereUas to their proper 
station. The practical man of affairs has a 
pecidiar prejudice in favor of holding a con- 
trolling interest ; and the real question at issue 
is how far those who best appreciate the needs 
of academic welfare shall be entrusted with the 
means of converting their knowledge into power. 
The view set forth with Philistine imconcern 
for its justice or its significance is that profes- 
sors are rather an imruly lot, troubled with ill- 
assorted notions of their own, that make them 
perversely insensitive to the categorical impera- 
tive of inspired legislation, or the divine vica- 



rage of favored millionaires. In some cases they 
have been known to refuse pottage even when 
offered upon a silver platter. Such blindness 
to the real interests of the University argues 
congenital defect in the clan as a whole. And 
when it comes to such a pass that Facidties 
protest against what they choose to call the de- 
moralizing influences of gate-receipts and gTand- 
stands, wiKidly negligent of the fact that this 
is the readiest way in which the University can 
get its name in the papers, it is certainly high 
time that the professor shall be kept busy teach- 
ing, while some wiser man, who can properly 
understand what the people want, shall direct 
the affairs of state. 

The academic " boss " is frankly advocated 
as the proper head for a University in a demo- 
cratic land. Foreign exemplars in which Facul- 
ties so largely control their own affairs, are all 
misleading, because in the first place in their 
ignorance these benighted institutions have not 
discovered the simple efficacy of the " win-at-any- 
cost" one-man power, and because in this country 
the man who buys a ticket has the right to dictate 
how his Shakespeare shall be performed. Might 
is not only right ; but the highest truth lies in 
the recognition of the special providence that 
reigns over our brave and free domain by which 
the mere gift of power always brings with it 
the highest measure of wisdom. If a Univer- 
sity cannot be conducted upon business prin- 
ciples by business men, it defies the national 
gods and must await its doom. Yet it seems at 
least a plausible position that the concerns of a 
University are as individual as any other enter- 
prise, and that some sympathetic insight into 
the purposes and amis of such an institution is 
a prerequisite for participating in its atlminis- 
tration. This central moment of the situation, 
this supreme directive principle, the autocratic 
policy does not wholly ignore ; but it regards it as 
a secondary requirement, an easily-gained accom- 
plishment, that may be learned when occasion 
offers, or better, may be determined by a popular 
referendum. The annual Freshman crop will 
tell you whether the University is filling its 
mission. AU that is needed to send the busy 
hum of cidture abroad in the land is the " push " 
of some clever manager of the University de- 
partment store, sharp enough to observe which 
counters are crowded, and where the popidar 
salesmen are to be found, and to seciire their 
services for the least pay and the maximum sub- 
servience. Great is the reward of residts ! and 
to him to whom students are not given, let his 
professorship be taken away ! Let us raise the 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



33 



salary of the professor of scientific horseshoeing, 
and take away fi'om the professor of Greek what 
little he hath ! 

But in all seriousness, there is reallj' sonie- 
thing to be said for the autocratic President ; 
but it can be acceptably said only by one who 
has an underlying sympathetic insight into the 
real needs of the academic life and who is pro- 
foundly regretfid. if he chance to be a Univer- 
sity President, that he cannot more abundantly 
supply the conditions that he knows shoidd ex- 
ist, and to the realization of which his efforts are 
consistently directed. So long as he advocates 
the gagging of the profeasor and then jeers at 
him for his helplessness, the insxdt that he adds to 
injujy but emphasizes his imfitness for academic 
administration. The ti-aits of the individual 
that in this ^^ew ai*e set forth as desirable for 
academic leadership are radically incompatible 
with the kinds of residts that are held out as the 
desirable ends of his afbninLstration. W ith these 
ideals we have but modest disagreement. They 
are worthy ideals in part, but are expressetl wath 
that v^agueness of form and fervor of utterance 
that is deemed the projjer tone to assume when 
the gallery is in attendance. It is that per- 
fectly conventional and custom-sanctioned lofti- 
ness of sentiment that the man of the street in 
the language of the sti*eet describes as finding 
expression through the uniLSual channel of his 
headgear. The effect of the whole is at once 
nidlified when the insensibility to the real con- 
cerns of academic life appears so conspicuously 
between the lines. 

Like^vise is there much to be said in defense 
of the present caste of the University' Presi- 
dency. The powers which that official has come 
to exercise are in part the issue of circumstances 
that are regrettable but ine\'itable in so new a 
cidture as ours. There is much to conunend, 
and moi-e freely . to excuse in the manner in 
which the office has been filled, and in the dic- 
tatorial aspect that it has assumed in our 
educational development. But to glorifj^ these 
shortcomings of our immatiuity. and to derive 
a model for the future from the misfortunes of 
the past, is whoUy to misread the evolutionary 
lesson. Those who have both an interest in and 
a knowledge of academic concerns will be the 
fii-st to acknowletlge the honor that is due to 
the President and to exjjress appreciation of his 
actual services. But this tribute is brought to 
the man who makes the best of his opportun- 
ities, who does not confuse might with right, or 
the feasible with the desirable. Worthy and 
practical compromise soils no man's hands : but 



when the birthright is bartered for servility, 
and the sacrifice of ideals is the price of material 
advance, the spirit of corruption is astir and is 
none the less vicious for being cleverly or loftily 
disguised. As a matter of fact, it is simply im- 
possible that the interests of the cultural life 
should be safeguarded by any others than those 
whose lives are devoted to such pursuit. ThLs 
does not mean that leadership and organization 
and practical measures shall not find due place; 
but it does mean that Boai-ds of Trustees can- 
not decide what ends Universities are to accom- 
plish, and then engage expert agents to carry 
out their decisions. 

The proper relation of Trustees, Faculty, 
and President is too large and too technical a 
question to be here tliscussed. Our concern Ls 
with the dignity of the academic life and the 
furtherance of academic welfare. Administra- 
tive measures can do much to make or mar the 
conditions under which the academic life is to 
be livetl. At present there is grave danger that 
what little honor and reward is left to this 
career will be lost to the next generation through 
the s})ec-tacle of the harsh adversities that beset 
the undaunted or misguided enthusiasts that 
still gather in the quadrangle. The most seri- 
ous menace lies in that spirit of dependent ac- 
countability that dominates the professorial 
career in an American institution, and to which 
Mr. Pritchett has calle<l timely attention. The 
academic peace came as a heritage to the pa.st 
but not to the present generation ; the academic 
freedom, not mainly of professional speech, but 
the pursuit of life with reasonable freedom from 
hari-assing restraint, is rapidly declining. No 
single influence is more intimately responsible 
for the decline than the unsuitable natiire of 
University administration, that appears con- 
spicuously in the inconsiderate autocracy in 
which the President may legally indulge. The 
benevolent despot may justify means by ends ; 
but the more likely issue that has actually oc- 
curi-etl is the sacrifice of the professor to the 
demands for material advance imder presidential 
ambition for results that shall dazzle the crowd. 
It must likewise be admitted that the entire 
range of influences that shape etlucational opin- 
ion has cobpei-ated to bring to the Presidency 
the ti>-pe of individual that mildly or aggressively 
assumes the role that it is his due and duty to 
assume, if the text of the '• Atlantic '* article is 
to prevail. In this very circmiistance lies the 
weakness and misfortime of the iLSual pi*ovisions 
for academic administration. That these issues 
have natiirallv resulted from the hurrietl deve 1- 



34 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 16, 



opment of our cultural progress, we entirely 
agree. But the further conclusion that the 
wi'iter draws, that these things are right because 
they are so, is an open bid for a fooFs paradise. 
The equipment of knowledge, sensibilities, and 
interest that makes a man an educator is not 
that displayed in a business meeting of the 
Trustees, or in the pompous appearance before 
intimidated teachers ; it is so imrelated to these 
that it must be the rarest chance to find a man 
of ripe educational endowment both able and 
willing to give so much of his energies to matters 
only incidentally belonging to his true metier. 
And the hopeful solution for present difficulties 
lies in the very spirit in which the really worthy 
University President takes up his work, and as 
well in the further fact that more and more 
generally is fitness for such high office appraised 
with reference to such intrinsically academic 
qualities. Just how significant this brighter 
light along the horizon may be, and how cer- 
tainly it heralds the dispersal of the clouds, 
those given to meteorological prophecy may 
decide. 

Doubtless all this seems a needlessly severe 
arraignment of what is obviously a well-inten- 
tioned effort. As a sporadic indication of one 
man's view of which way the wind is blowing 
and of how we should trim our sails to take 
advantage thereof, it deserves no more consid- 
eration than attaches to the opinion thus ex- 
pressed. But reputations are not such simple 
affairs ; and the sponsorship of the " Atlantic" 
places these pages in the public eye with the 
jwestige of representing a conmiendable aspect 
of intellectual ideals. It is this phase of the 
situation that has dispelled a very natural im- 
pulse to hold our peace, and without seizmg 
the controversial pen to await a fitting oppor- 
tunity to replace what is regarded as a false 
ideal by a worthier one. If this seems unfair 
to the editorial liability of the " Atlantic," let 
it be recalled tliat it has ever been the lot of 
Atlas to bear the burden of the world upon his 
shoulders, and that the editorial, like the pro- 
fessorial, responsibility is great. 



A BUNDLE of " Simples from Sir Thomas Browne's 
Garden," gathered by Mr. Harry Christopher Minchin, 
is an appropriate publication of the tercentenary year 
of Browne's birth. All of the anthor's books are rep- 
resented in the selections, and the volume can hardly 
fail to accomplish its compiler's purpose of suggesting 
" to even a few readers some conception of the spiritual 
depth, mental hmiinosity, and moral sweetness which 
were united in the personality of Sir Thomas Browne." 
Mr. B. II. Blackwell, of Oxford, publishes the book. 



YEAR OF CONTINENTAL 
LITERATURE. — I. 



The annual reports upon Continental literature, 
hitherto collected in a single issue of "The Athe- 
naeum," are now presented upon a new plan, being 
published one at a time in separate numbers of that 
periodical. Reports from Germany, Russia, and 
Spain have thus far appeared in the current series, 
and these we now summarize for the benefit of 
American readers. 

Dr. Ernst Heilborn, who writes of German liter- 
atiu'e, confines his attention to criticism, poetry, the 
drama, and the novel. He puts criticism first be- 
cause he thinks that it " stands at the present mo- 
ment on a higher level than purely creative work. 
Its authors display a more vigorous and pronounced 
personality, it is more individual in expression, and 
its style has more colour." The works of three 
Berlin critics are chosen for discussion, Herr Paid 
Goldmann's "Aus dem Dramatischen Irrgarten," 
Herr Alfred Kerr's " Das Neue Drama," and Herr 
Felix Poppenberg's " Bibelots." " From the obscure 
and eddying dance of shadows these three literary 
personalities step forth and stand before us clear 
and firm in outline." Herr Goldmann stands for 
specifically French ideals, and urges " the necessity 
of returning to a definite and apjiroved stage- 
technique." He is also " the sworn foe of naturalism 
in its German development, and is possessed by an 
ardent desire for gi>andeur, passionate action, colour, 
and form." Herr Kerr is also " rooted in roman- 
ticism," and his influence has been "largely instru- 
mental in dethroning naturalism." Herr Poppen- 
berg also "consciously set his affections on roman- 
ticism from the very first, and has always been the 
opponent of realism with its lack of colour." This 
similarity of attitude on the part of all three toward 
the chief literary controversy of the day is certainly 
remarkable, and shows us that the romantic cause is 
by no means in so desperate a case as some of its 
foes would have us believe. In verse, nothing very 
important is chronicled. There are the collected 
poems of Otto Erich Hartleben, who has just died, 
the " Reigen Schoner Frauen " of Herr Otto Hauser, 
" Die Vier Jahreszeiten " of Herr Frank Wedekind, 
and the " Galgenlieder " of Herr Chi'istian Morgen- 
stern. The two books last named belong to the 
category of fantastic or gi-otesque art. The litera- 
ture of the drama is notable for its reshaping of 
borrowed material. Herr Beer-Hofmann's tragedy, 
" Der Graf von Charolais," is a free adaptation of 
Massinger's " The Fatal Dowry "; Herr von Hof- 
mannsthal's "Das Gerettete Venedig" is likewise 
founded on Otway's " Venice Preserved," while 
even Herr Hauptmann's new dream-play, "Elga," 
takes its subject from one of Grillparzer's tales. 

"This is the story of a Polish countess who plays her 
husband false with the comrade of her youth. We see the 
count tormented by doubts and fears ; his suspicion becomes 
a certainty, and he confronts his wife with her paramour in 
the very spot where they have sinned. The latter confesses 
their guilt, while she denies it. There is but one way, declares 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



35 



her husband peremptorily, by which she can save her life : 
she must kill with her own hand the child that has been be- 
gotten in adultery. At the moment, however, when she is 
actoallv preparing for this inb nman deed, her husband strikes 
her down. For this subject, full of horrors as it is, Haupt- 
mann has chosen the form of a " dream-play "; it is presented 
in a series of visions seen by a Glerman knight who has taken 
refuge in the Polish cloister." 

Other plays are •* Die Bauerin," by Frau Clara 
Viebig; "Die MorgenrSte" (the story of Lola 
Montez in Munich), by Herr Josef Ruederer; 
"Biederleute," by Herr Robert Misch; ''Die Sieb- 
zehnjahrigen," by Herr Max Dreyer; " Xebenein- 
ander." by Herr Georg Hirschfeld; "Maskerade," 
by Herr Ludwig Fulda"; and "'Im Grilnen Baum 
ztir NachtigaU," the last work of Hartleben. A 
curious trick of this writer and some others, show- 
ing to what straits a straining for novelty may cany 
writers, is thus described : 

" Their method is to employ a strictly realistic treatment 
in the earlier acts of a drama, and so obtain a comic effect in 
the portrayal of laughable characters and surroundings, and 
then, when the original comedy begins to drag, to transform 
it on a sudden into tragedy. Anything more inartistic than 
this it would be hard to conceive, for every tragic effect 
should be led up to by causes inherent in the theme proposed." 

Turning to fiction, we find interesting notes upon a 
number of books, but no description of anj-thing 
highly important, Herr Hans Miiller's " Buch der 
Abenteuer" "•makes an attempt to revive the old 
Italian tale in the manner of Boccaecio." Frau 
Riccarda Huch's '• Seif enblasen " again shows that 
talented writer to be "a genuine and original roman- 
ticist." Herr Otto Hauser's " Lucidor der Ungliick- 
liche" embodies Goethe's ideal that "we should 
fashion life itself into a work of art." Herr Lud- 
wig Thoma's " Andrea.s Yost " describes a little Ba- 
varian community with notable vigor and descrip- 
tive talent. Herr Jakob Wassermann's "Alexander 
in Babylon " is a brUliant piece of historical romance 
which does not, however, realize the full significance 
of its theme. Dr. HeUborn's general comment on 
the year's output is put in a sentence of admirable 
truth that might, indeed, be applied to many other 
coimtries besides Germany. 

" If I had to characterize the literature of the past year in 
s few words. I should say that far too many literary fashions, 
which lead only to confusion, are followed, and there is a 
consequent lack of that naiveti which by the simplest means 
can shape an inner, personal experience into a work of art." 

Mr. Valerii Briusov, who writes from Russia, 
begins his report as follows : 

" It is impossible to say that literary life in Russia has 
been develoj»ed in orthodox fashion during the last twelve 
months. The attention of all society has been so much 
occupied by the war with Japan and the revolutionary move- 
ment in the country, that readers were not likely to be in- 
fluenced by purely literary developments. On the other 
hand, current events have had their influence on literature, 
if we take that expression in its widest sense." 

Among the effects of this influence may be noted 
many translations of works upon political subjects, 
and the greater freedom of discussion resulting from 
a relaxed censorship of the press. Russian publicists 
call this new breath of freedom the " Spring," and 
it has brought into free circulation such formerly 



contraband books as the works of Herzen, Tseher- 
nishevski, and the poet Og^riev. The most impor- 
tant event in contemporary literature has been the 
completion of Itlr. Merezhkovski's " Peter and 
Alexis," the concluding section of the great " Christ 
and Antichrist " trilogj'. 

" In the whole work the author exhibits a vast labour, 
which shows his great erudition. In his talent he is rather 
an essayist than a poet. The chapters devoted to the char- 
acterization of the great Russian emperor are magnificent — 
a wonderful, and at the same time portentous, portraiture of 
the giant Tsar. The remaining chapters furnish living pic- 
tures of various sides of Russian life at the beginning of the 
eighteenth century. The language of the novel is condensed, 
carefully elaborated, and shows a good style. But Merezh- 
kovski has not produced an artistic whole. He has not 
brought into complete form the material which he has col- 
lected ; he has been prevented by his desire to show that 
Peter destroyed the Russian Church. The novel is not a 
shapely, well-proportioned statue, conceived by one artistic 
survey, but a museum of curiosities and mosaics." 

Mr. Andrev's '' The Red Laughter " is a tale deal- 
ing with "the terrors of war and the madness of 
the masses." It is a psychological study rather than 
an epic picture. Mr. Sologub has surpassed him- 
self in a book of " daintj* little parables, recalling the 
fables of the East or the tales of Andersen." In 
" The Return," by Mr. A. Bieli, 

" The strict continuity of our life is mingled with the illogi- 
cality of dreams, and is turned into a disconnected and mon- 
strous chaos ; the conditions of time and space are, as it were, 
obliterated, and dizziness seizes the reader, as at the beg^inning 
of an earthquake." 

"The Duel," a novel by Mr. I. Kuprin, is "a tale of 
military life, representing the emptiness and petti- 
ness of the lives of Russian officers." A few short 
stories and a play by " Maxim Gorky " have not 
been particularly successful, and the influence of this 
writer seems to be declining. An extraordinary 
example of the closet drama is " Tantalus," by Mr. 
Ivanov. which, in the opinion of our critic, the an- 
cients would certainly have crowned. Lyrical verse 
is exemplified by the new volumes of Mr. Balmont, 
Mr. Block, and Mr. Dobruliobov. 

Don Rafael Altamira, writing of Spanish lit- 
erature, gives a lengthy list, as usual, of works in 
the fields of serious scholarship. Among these we 
note the varied literature of the Don Quixote ter- 
centenary, including an important address by Senor 
Menendez y Pelayo, and a posthumous essay by 
Juan Valera. and many other books of Cervantes 
criticism, biography, philology, and bibliography. 
So much space is taken up by this enumeration that 
little is left for the miscellaneous output of the year. 
In fiction, there is " La Quimera," by Sefiora Baz^n ; 
" La Bodega," by SeiSor Ib^fiez ; " Aurora Roja," by 
Senor Baroja ; and three new volimies of "Episodios 
Nacionales." by Sefior Grald<5s. In the drama, there 
are new plays by Senor Echegaray and Sefior 
Graldds, but " the leading names among the drama- 
tists are those of the brothers Quintero and of the 
Catalan Iglesias." Castilian poetry has recently un- 
dergone a grave loss in the death of Gabriel y Gakin, 
a '• young poet whose verses express the very essence 
of the Castilian country-side." 



36 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 16, 



COMMUNICA TION. 



MR. SWINBURNE'S POETRY. 
(To the Editor of Thk Dial.) 

The editorial article in yoiir last number, entitled 
"A Poet for Poets," suggests several interesting 
questions. As I have no especial knowledge of Mr. 
Swinburne's work, I shall not attempt to answer these 
questions, but I should be glad of an opportunity to 
submit some of them to you and to your readers. 

You assert in effect that Mr. Swinburne's poetry is 
still grotesquely misvmderstood by a " large section of 
the public," and yoii imply that this misunderstanding 
is due "to ignorance and prejudice." You complain 
that he is misjudged because " sound and fury, debased 
sensualism, and vacuity of thought are honestly sup- 
posed by many well-meaning people to be essential 
attributes of his work." You seek to refute such a view 
by referring these " well-meaning people " to certain 
poems, which in your opinion show severity of style, or 
idealism, or depth of thought; and you conclude that 
those who disagree with you have either never read 
Swinburne's significant work, or that, having read it, 
they are impervious to the appeal of pure poetry. 

Now I may not entirely agree with these " well- 
meaning people," but I confess that my sympathies go 
out towards them. Let us state their case a little more 
moderately, and I believe a little more correctly, and 
then ask ourselves if it has not at least an element of 
truth. 

Take their contention that Mr. Swinburne's poetry 
as a whole is lacking in depth, power, and originality of 
thought. It is not a convincing answer to this charge 
to be referred to two poems, which occupy possibly 
eighteen pages out of the eighteen hundred or two 
thousand printed pages of the complete edition of Mr. 
Swinburne's poems. Whether these particular poems 
exhibit depth of thought or not, is beside the mark. In 
actual fact it happens that one of the two examples is 
a poor one, — for there is nothing either new or profoimd 
in the chief thought of "Hertha." The leading idea 
in this poem had been already used by Emerson in his 
" Brahma," and m places Swinburne follows Emerson 
with surprising closeness. If you contend that " Her- 
tha" is a fine poem, we agree with you most fully; but 
if you point to it as a contribution to thought, we reply 
that it is no more a contribution to thought than Her- 
rick's injunction " Gather ye rosebuds while ye may " 
is an original contribution to philosophy. Agam, if 
" well-meaning people " complain of an unwholesome, 
feverish, and morbid atmosphere in Mr. Swinburne's 
so-called love poems, it does not satisfy them to be told 
tliat in one short poem of a different class, " The Pil- 
grims," there is " austere idealism." The opposition 
may, I think, properly ask, in what poem or poems has 
Mr. Swinburne written of love not as a delirious pagan 
but as a high-minded gentleman, as Dante Avrote of it 
in the "Vita Nuova," or Shakespeare in Sonnet CXVI., 
as Wordsworth wrote of it at. rare moments, or Brown- 
ing, or Tennyson, or Burns ? 

Permit me to make one suggestion in conclusion. 
There is a very simple way of meeting the charge that 
Mr. Swinburne's poetry is greater in mamier than in 
matter, in melody and in verbal cumiing than in any 
solid substratum of thought. I have seen in more than 
one recent criticism the unsupported assertion that Mr. 



Swinburne was a profoimd thuiker; what I should like 
to see would be some specific statement of the exact na^ 
ture of his contribution to thought. What answer does he 
give to the eternal riddles of the World-Sphinx ? Is it 
a thoughtful, a cheering, or a wholesome answer ? What 
is the natui-e of the " etliical inspiration " we are said to 
receive from his poetry ? He is known as the poet of 
Liberty, — what has he contributed to the world's thought 
on the complex question of human freedom ? Has he 
added one jot of sober thought to the lyric rhapsodies of 
Shelley, or to the blind revolt of Byron ? Has he ever 
approached the wisdom of Coleridge's treatment of this 
subject in the latter's ode on "France "? Has he, in 
brief, shown himself prof ounder than the lightest-brained 
enthusiast or the traditional Irishman who is always 
" agin the government " ? 

I believe that an answer to these questions would be 
a real help to many. It would help them to judge of 
the justice of Mr. Coventry Patmore's declaration that 
in reading Mr. S%vinburne's poetry it is " impossible not 
to feel that there has been some disproportion between 
his power of saying things and the things he has to say." 
I should like to see these and kindred questions dis- 
cussed temperately and without recrimination; and I 
should like the discussion to be based on the quality 
and character of Mr. Swinbm-ne's poetry us a whole; 
remembering, on the one hand, that it is easy to imder- 
value his great gifts, and that, on the other, it is easy, 
— as Mr. Saintsbury warns us, — to be betrayed into an 
" micritical admiration " of his work. 

Henry S. Pancoast. 

Hartford, Conn., Jan. 11, 1906, 

[We print this communication, although it seems 
to do no more than repeat the shallow objections 
that have been voiced ad nauseam by many other 
unsympathetic critics. The points it makes are so 
worn that they have become blunt. To say with 
Professor Woodberry that Mr. Swinburne is "a 
very thoughtful poet " is the exact truth, but it does 
not mean that he is a poet who has made serious 
original contributions to thought. What poet may 
be named who has done such a thing ? It is not the 
poet's business to frame formal, philosophies. But 
we believe that Mr. SAvinburne's work as a whole is 
as weighty, from the intellectual point of view, as 
that of any of his contemporaries. That is, it shows 
him to have thought clearly and steadily upon quite 
as many subjects, and to have as definite a body of 
opinions, as the best of them. Whether his answer 
to the "eternal riddles" is a "cheering" one or not 
is beside the mark. It is also beside the mark to 
censure him for not having aj^proached a given sub- 
ject in exactly the temper of some other poet with 
whom the critic is more in sympathy. It would be 
easy enough to give the lists of poems and passages 
which our correspondent calls for, if oiu- present 
space permitted. In naming one or two poems as 
typical, we by no means implied that there were not 
others of equal significance. And we regi'et to notice 
the evidences of unconscious prejudice ("delirious 
pagan," " lightest-brained enthusiast," " traditional 
Irishman " ) that bear out the writer's admission 
that he has " no especial knowledge of Mr. Swin- 
burne's work." — Edr.] 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



37 



^t gtfo gooks. 



Autobiography of ax Irish Patriot.* 

Quickness of wit, readiness of resource, 
buoyancy of disposition, love of fun, warmth 
of heart, courage in the face of really appalling 
danger, fortitude in the most trying adversity, 
loyalty to friends, generosity to enemies, and 
above all an ardent love of coimtry, — these 
and other qualities more or less characteristic 
of the impulsive, indomitable Iiishman are re- 
vealed in the seK-portraiture, or "Recollections," 
of Mr. WiUiam O'Brien, M.P. With a Celtic 
unwillingness to take over-much thought for the 
morrow, he spends his money as fast as he earns 
it, as he frankly teUs us, but scrupidously avoids 
debt, and keeps no bank account because there 
is nothing to account for. In the words of 
Horace, A^dth whose verses he shows himself 
not unfamiliar, he would doubtless say: 

" Prudens f utori temporis exitum 
Caliginosa nocte prerait deus, 
Ridetque si mortalis ultra 
Fas trepidat." 

And, in agi'eement with the same poet, he woidd 
consistently add the wholesome caution, " Quod 
adest memento componere aequus." 

Although these interesting memoirs were 
completed but six months ago, they bring the 
writer's record down only to 1883, thus leav- 
ing for future publication — or at least such 
a consimmiation is to be hoped for — all the 
stirring events of a fierce political and parlia- 
mentary struggle since that date, including the 
imprisonment of 1890, during which was writ- 
ten the popvdar story " When We were Boys." 
Leaving out of account the vexed question of 
Home Ride for Ireland, the rights or wrongs 
of Irish tenants and landlords, and all such 
matters of politics as are likely to excite in the 
reader more or less warmth of opposition or 
agreement, one cannot but pronoimce the book 
a hmiian document of imusual interest. Many 
of its details, to be sure, are such as a reader of 
no deep sjTupathies on either side of the great 
Irish question will omit ; and many others are 
of a nature that makes a personal acquaintance 
with the Emerald Isle necessaiy to their \a^nd 
realization and keen enjopuent. But enough 
remains of lively adventure, of hardship bravely 
borne, and of danger cheei-fidly faced, to make 
the record stimulating and thoroughly entertain- 
ing. Perhaps a brief outline of Mr. O'Brien's 

•Recollections. By William O'Brien, M.P. Illustrated. 
New York: The Macmillan Co. 



eventfid life will help to the better appreciation 
of his book. 

He is stUl what many, in defiance of Dr. 
Osier, will call comparatively yoimg, having 
been bom in 1852. MaUow, Cork County, is 
his birthplace ; there and in its vicinity his 
youth was passed ; and it was this town that 
first sent him to Parliament, in 1883. Both 
father and mother, as well as two brothers and 
a sister, died in his early manhood, and the 
young man was left dependent on such mental 
equipment as a rather brief attendance at 
Cloyne Diocesan CoUege and Queen's College, 
Cork, together with much miscellaneous read- 
ing, hatl enabled him to secure. The account 
he gives of his earliest schoolmaster, whom he 
calls " Attda," and of this tyrant's "• heavy box 
bludgeon delicately called 'the slapper,'" re- 
minds one of George MacDonald's vivid picture 
of Murdoch Malison, known to his trembling 
subjects as " Murder " Malison, and his dreaded 
taws. The literary impulse had early asserted 
itself in our author, and he took to journalism 
as a duck to water. Reporter on the " Cork 
Daily Herald," contributor to the " Freeman's 
Journal," editor of " United Ireland " and of 
" The Irish People," he brought an imtiring 
pen to the service of his country, and paid 
for his patriotism by more than two years of 
imprisonment, first and la.st. Indeed, he was 
prosecuted no fewer than nine times for politi- 
cal offenses. In 1898 he started a new agra^ 
rian movement and foimded the " United Irish 
League." Of his books, besides the one already 
named, the best-known are " Irish Ideas " and 
" A Queen of Men." He has been in Parlia^ 
ment intermittently since 1883, being now, if we 
are not mistaken. Nationalist member for Cork. 

To gain an idea of the stem training to 
which the yoimg patriot-author was subjected, 
take the following picture of faimly disaster. 
The \\Titer was twenty-six at the time to which 
these records of sickness and death and poverty 
refer : 

" I stretched myself on the sofa in the sitting-room, 
the only room in the house where there was not some- 
. body dpng or dead, and tried to sleep. One familiar 
cough was now missing from the chorus. The others 
still from time to time broke through the sUence of the 
house of death, but not in any especially alarming way, 
and my mother had mercifully fallen into a deep sleep 
after her long watchings. About two hours afterwards I 
was awakened from a half-sleep by a particidariy violent 
explosion of coughing from the room where my younger 
brother was Ipng. The coughing cidminated in au awfid 
hollow sigh, which sounds as distinctly in my memory 
now, more than a quarter of a centurj- after, as it did on 
that dreadfiU night. Then there came a silence, more 
terrifying a thousand times than the coughing. I would 



38 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 16, 



have given anything to hear the well-known cough again. 
... It was too late to give my mother any consolation 
by awakening her, and there was always the fear of the 
effect on my poor sister, whose cough alone now broke 
the stillness, save for an occasional attack of my own. I 
sat on the bed in the dark, with the dead, until the day- 
light, which it seemed never would come, and then, as 
I heard my mother move, went in to warn her not to 
frighten my sister. From that hour the overwhelming 
sadness of human life has never quitted me. If my hair 
had not grown white, when I looked in the glass, it was 
certainly another man, and a sad one, I saw there." 

As was to be expected, frequent glimpses of 
Parnell are given in Mr. O'Brien's pages, in 
addition to the frontispiece portrait of the man 
with which the book is provided. A bon mot of 
Pamell's is quoted as characteristic of his hmnor. 
*' Ireland," he declared, " is too small a country 
for a rebellion. There is not enough room to 
run away." He added that " Wasliington saved 
America by running away. If he had been 
fighting in Ireland, he woidd have been brought 
to surrender in six weeks. Nowadays, with the 
railways, England could sweep the country from 
Cork to Donegal in six days." Here are a few 
passages from Mr. O'Brien's note-book : 

"Nov. l^th [1878]. Routed out at seven this morn- 
ing to go to Tralee with Parnell and his fiery cross. 
Joined him in the same carriage from Mallow, and had 
three hours' astonishingly confidential chat. Coldish 
reception in Tralee, but no colder than public feeling 
everywhere about everything just now. . . . 

" Nov. IQth. Parnell addressed a rough-and-tumble 
meeting, half farmers, half Fenians, with several tipsy 
interrupters and a preliminary alarm that the floor was 
giving way. He spoke imder cruel difficulties, but fired 
them all before he sat down. . . . 

"Nov. nth. Returned by night-mail, and had end- 
less delightful glimpses of P. and of the real man. . . . 
He has captured me, heart and soul, and is bound to go 
on capturing. A sweet seriousness au fond, any amount 
of nervous courage, a delicate reserve, without the 
smallest suspicion of hauteur; strangest of all, humoiir; 
above everything else, simplicity; as quietly at home 
with the girls in Mallow as with his turbulent audience 
in Tralee. We exchanged no end of confidences. As 
romantic as Lord Edward, but not to be shaken from 
prosier methods. In any case a man one coidd suffer 
with proudly." 

Mr. O'Brien's early investigation of the Irish 
landlord system made him painfully familiar 
with the sufferings of the peasantry. 

"What, perhaps, was the most hatefid discovery of 
all was that the poorer the land and the meeker the 
tenant, the more merciless was his rent, and the more 
diabolical the oppression practised upon him. In the 
richer parts of the country, the system bred special 
evils of its own; but the Tipperary peasant living on a 
generous soil often paid little more than half the sum 
per acre that was extorted from the small holder of 
Mayo for the acre or two of similar quality which might 
be found, like an oasis, amidst the rocks and swamps 
which made up the rest of his holding. ... A more 
cruel circumstance still, the poor western, evicted from 



the fertile lands which abound in Connaught, was more 
heavily rented per acre for the miserable motmtain 
patch to which he was banished than the big grazier or 
gombeen-man, in whose interest he was driven from 
his own fields, was asked to pay for tliem. The poorer 
landlords held the poorest parts of the country, and the 
rents were fixed not according to the poverty of the 
land or of the tenants who reclaimed it, but according 
to the necessities of the landlord, who did nothmg for 
the land except to rack-rent and mortage it." 

Amid such descriptions of hardship, in which 
the book almost of necessity abounds, it is a 
welcome relief to meet with the following refer- 
ence to present better conditions, even though 
the paragraph is relegated to the subordinate 
position of a footnote : 

" Life has given me few happier reflections than that 
Clare Island, which I thus saw for the first time under 
all the terrors of hunger and squalid landlord oppres- 
sion, is now, owing to a train of circumstances of pecu- 
liar satisfaction to the writer, a happy commxmity of 
peasant proprietors, free forever from the shadow of 
famine, landlordism, gmiboat, or sheriff. I had the 
happiness of seeing the steamer, in which the agent and 
sheriff used to invade the island for rent, rotting to 
pieces on the beach near Mallow Cottage [the author's 
home] , its occupation and that of the sheriff-agent be- 
ing gone." 

In a chapter entitled " A Newspaper's Fight 
for Life," the author tells of his editing " United 
Ireland " from his cell in Kilmainham Jail. An 
extract will give a hint of the pecvdiar situation. 

" It seems never once to have occurred to the Chief 
Secretary that the enemy against whom he was wildly 
flinging about his warrants was all the time doing his 
work from his own jail. My brother-prisoners included 
representatives from every county in the soutli, east, 
and west of Ireland. They were all allowed to receive 
their local newspapers. . . . My plan was to collect 
from each of the suspects his own local paper, together 
with their private letters, received by subterranean 
agencies, giving particulars not otherwise attainable. 
In this way my cell was converted into an information 
bureau, from which I was able weekly to dispatch many 
columns of exciting details, and many columns more of 
pungent comments, so that the paper, amidst all the 
crash and chaos m its editorial rooms, its printing staff, 
and its machinery room, became a more formidable foe, 
and the object of a stronger public interest than ever. 
. . . The Ladies' Land League gave Forster an addi- 
tional grudge against their body, by drafting a body of 
sweet girl graduates into United Ireland office to take 
the place of the outlawed men; and most unselfishly 
and valiantly, for several months, they kept its accounts, 
and supplied some of its most piquant writings, and 
foUed the police raiders by a thousand mgenioiis fem- 
inine devices for circulating the paper." 

Then follows the story of the newspaper's wan- 
dering existence, under government interdict, 
appearing now from a London press, a little 
later from one in Liverpool, then emerging 
serenely in Glasgow, next in Manchester, and 
even for a while being printed in Paris — all 
much to the bewilderment of the British police. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



39 



The closing chapter brings Mr. O'Brien's his- 
tory do^Ti to his election as member for Mallow. 
" The figures," he writes, " were : O'Brien 161, 
Naish 89 ; which was for Mallow a majority 
more stupefying than one of thousands would be 
in a modem London constituency," Of course 
the scene in Mallow, on the announcement of 
this glorious issue, was pandemonium let loose ; 
and it wa.s late at night before the "■ chairing " 
of the successfid candidate through the town 
was over. 

Mr. O'Brien's book takes rank with IVIr. 
Justin McCarthy's politico-autobiographic re- 
miniscences. While its scope is narrower, its 
viridness is more intense. The author at times 
writes, as it were, with his very heart "s blood ; 
and thus writing he cannot fail to command a 
rea^^- Percy F. Bicknell. 



Proven CE: Its Histort, Art, axd 

lilTERATURE.* 



The unfailing charm which exhales from the 
]VIidi of France has never appealetl in vain to sen- 
sitive imaginations. The Province of Rome is but 
dimly ajjprehended of the schoolboy mind, reluc- 
tantly f oUo\\'ing the campaigns of Caesar ; to it, 
jIVIassilia is little more than a feminine noun, and 
Rhodanus a rapid river that had to be crossed 
by boat or bridge. But shoidd the boy. in 
maturer years, be so fortunate as to visit Pro- 
vence, he sees it steeped in the light of history 
which is half romance, of metliaeval song which 
has found its re-incamation in the nineteenth 
century, of arcliitectural monmnents conser\Tng 
the best traditions of Greece and Rome, and of 
a popular pride and hospitality which makes the 
traveller welcome and leaves him well-informed. 

Aside from the guide-books and other specific 
works of reference, the accounts in English of 
Provencal history, literature, and art have been 
neither very numerous nor comprehensive. Pro- 
fessor Justin H. Smith's " The Troubadours at 
Home," a scholai'ly work, was more nearly con- 
cerned \^'ith the literary annals of Provence than 
with its architecture or its political history ; and 
Mr. Thomas A. Janvier's delightful papers 
struck too personal and intimate a note to be 
wide-rancTngf. These two volumes of ^Ir. Cook's 
" Old Provence," however, attempt to acquaint 
us with the main events of about fifteen hun- 
dred years of history in a territory stretching 

* Old Provesce. By Theodore Andrea Cook. M.A.. F.S. A. 
In two volomes. Ulustrated. New York: Charles Sciibner's 
Sons. 



from Carcassonne to the Riviera. The author's 
admirable handling of the life and history of the 
chateaux of the Loire in his former book " Old 
Touraine " was a sufficient guaranty that Pro- 
vencal themes would be treated with scholarship 
and sympathy. As he reminds us in the pref- 
ace, the history of Old Provence has necessitated 
a somewhat different treatment, — 
" Only because I hare had towns to deal with instead of 
castles, and because I have had far more space to cover, 
both in territory and in time, than was involved in 
describing the chateaux in the districts of Tours and of 
Blois. The Seine seems full of commerce and of gov- 
ernment ; the Loire still mirrors the pleasure-palaces of 
the Valois court upon its golden stream ; but the valley 
of the Rhone has been the highway of the nations, the 
path of conquerors, the battle-field of the invader, and 
its boatmen still call one bank ' Empire ' and the other 
♦ Kingdom ' ; though the names have long ago lost all 
sigfnificance in relation either to the east or to the west- 
em shore." 

The whole of the first volume is devoted to 
the period covering the ancient history of 
Provence, and including the occupancy of the 
Phoenicians, Greeks, and Romans, who have 
left traces on the soil of Southeastern France 
that are as remarkable, if not so numerous, as 
those to Ix- found in Southern Italy. Readers 
who oj)en the book unprepared by special study 
will be surprised, as they turn the pages and 
look at the many illustrations, by the abundant 
proofs of the consideration which this fair prov- 
ince enjoyed in the' days of imperial Rome. We 
follow Mr. Cook with deepening interest from 
town to town, studving the stately monuments 
which mark the victories of Marius and Caesar 
and the more peaceful glories of Augustus and 
his successors. Among these, especial attention 
is given to the beautifid " pyramidal " memorial 
and arch at St. Remy, and the more imposing 
but less pleasing arch at Orange, The theatres 
of Orange and Aries, built by Greek architects 
or under Greek influence, are finely contrasted 
with the great amphitheatres at Nimes and 
Aries, which, only less capacious than the Colos- 
seum at Rome, were devoted to the same bloody 
purposes. Of the few remains of Greek sculp- 
ture in Provence, !Mr, Cook discusses with most 
detail the two statues of Aphrodite known as 
the Venus of Aries and the Venus of Nimes. 
To the former he gives ardent adhesion, and 
even makes her the subject of a poem in the 
Sapphic manner, prefixed to his first chapter. 

The last material trace of Greek life in Pro- 
vence is the beautifid temple at Nimes, absurdly 
called the " ]VIaison Carree." As an architect 
(Mr. Cook is an F.S.A.), the author dwells with 
loving minuteness on the chaste proportions of 



40 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 16, 



this little structure, "the greatest treasure of 
classic architecture north of the Alps "; and 
carefully explains for lay readers those various 
refinements and subtle irregtdarities which gave 
vitality to the best Greek architecture, and the 
absence of which leaves its modem imitations 
dead. He is probably right, therefore, in his con- 
clusion that " this temple at Nimes was ordered 
by Romans who had definite ideas about the 
plan they considered appropriate, but it was set 
up by an architect of the Augustan age who 
knew how to give the best effect to his work." 
Of strictly Roman works, we are called upon 
to admire, above arches and amphitheatres, the 
superb aqueduct near Nimes known as the Pont 
du Gard, which Mr. Cook calls the finest Roman 
aqueduct, not only of Provence, but of the 
world. He adds : 

" The three tiers of arches, as Fergiisson points out, 
produce the same effect as an entablature and cornice 
upon a long range of columns, with the additional and 
stupendous feature that the whole structure spreads out 
wider and wider as it rises in height from its founda- 
tion. The full beauty of the work is therefore only 
appreciable from a little distance down the valley, 
where the slopmg hills above the stream add their sup- 
porting Imes to a picture which combines the majesty 
of nature with the daring skill of man. From here you 
realize how the Romans converted a merely utilitarian 
structure into an architectural screen of unrivalled 
beauty without the introduction of a single ornament 
or a single useless feature. . . . By such buildings as 
this did the Romans acqiure the constructive skill and 
magnificence of proportion which enabled them fear- 
lessly to plan buildings so vast in size, and to vaxdt 
spaces so huge, that the impress of their maker's power 
has lasted while the rock on which they built them has 
endured." 

If we have lingered on the architectural por- 
tions of the first volume, it is because they are 
distinctly the most attractive. Mr. Cook has 
felt it his duty to give much historical matter, 
from Hannibal to Augustus, that can be found 
in the books, and might have been condensed 
with no loss of interest and some gain in clear- 
ness. Taken as a whole, however, the volmne is 
a valuable contribution to the literature of the 
subject; and being separately indexed, it may 
profitably be used by itseM, without reference 
to the second volmne ; to which we must now 
devote a few words. 

It treats of medisBval Provence down to its 
absorption into France in the year 1481 ; and 
contains an interesting chapter on the three 
great fortresses of the South, — Les Baux, Car- 
cassonne, and Aigues Mortes. The reason for 
including Carcassonne, which is not strictly 
within the geographical limits of Provence, is 
that "its most heroic history is inextricably 



associated with the horrors of the Albigensian 
crusade " (of which Mr. Cook proceeds to give 
us a lengthy account) ; and also, that " no ex- 
cuse is needed for reminding the traveller in 
Provence that he is within reach of the most 
magnificent fortress in Europe, which has been 
held in turn by Visigoth, Frank, and French- 
man, and is now restored, by a very miracle of 
tasteful knowledge, to all the primitive splendor 
of its rugged beauty, its isolated strength, its 
marvellously complex architecture." 

Avignon and its Popes, who divided with 
Rome the homage of Christendom during the 
fourteenth century, are given a fvdl and com- 
prehensive chapter ; and it is only a pity that 
Mr. Cook found himseK compelled, for lack of 
space as he says, to cut short his description of 
beautiful VUleneuve. We could have better 
spared a Pope or two in order to have justice 
done to this fascinating old town, separated 
from Avignon only by " the blue rushing of the 
arrowy Rhone." 

Mr. Cook does fidl justice to Provencal lit- 
erature and to its modern revival in the Feli- 
bres ; and quotes plentifully from Mistral, 
Aubanel, Roiunanille, and the rest, generally 
with subjoined translations. From the " gay 
science " he selects and tells the stories of Clem- 
ence and of Aucassin and NicoUete. Good King 
Rene and his court close the picture ; " as an 
honest politician, his material successes were 
not so great as those obtained by more unscru- 
pulous players in the game of kings. His claim 
upon posterity lies rather upon artistic and intel- 
lectual gromids ; upon the serenity he showed 
in evil fortune ; the dignity with which he faced 
defeat ; the constancy with which he died, at 
Aix, July 10, 1480, still in possession of his 
titles of inheritance and knowing that he pos- 
sessed them for the good of France." 

We gladly go with Mr. Cook on a little jour- 
ney to the beautiful valley of Vaucluse, inunor- 
talized by its memories of 

" Lovely Laura in her light green dress, 
And faithful Petrarch gloriously crowned." 

He contends, against received accounts, that 
Laura did not meet Petrarch first in a church 
at Avignon, that she never married, and that 
she died of a chill instead of the plague. 

The book is weU printed ; though an obvious 
slip on page 17 of volume II, makes " favoured" 
out of " fevered." More than a guide-book, and 
less, it is one of those aids to travel which, like 
Mr. Crawford's " Rulers of the South," should 
lie by the side of Baedeker in even the smallest 
steamer trunk. Josiah Renick Smith. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



41 



A RE-VALrATIOX OF SCHLLLER.* 



During the year just closed, the hundi-edth 
anniversary of the death of Friedrich Schiller 
brought an almost embarrassing wealth of 
portraits, biographies, estimates, and apprecia- 
tions of the great German dramatist, forming 
an eloquent international expression of his far- 
reaching influence as man and poet. While 
the majority of these publications are mainly 
re-statements, in var^-ing form, of a sort of 
standard judgment as to the poet's position in 
literature. Professor Kiihnemann's book merits 
attention as a genuine attempt to contribute to 
a re-valuation of Schiller for our own time. He 
sets himself a definite task of interpretation, 
unmixed with attempts to solve any questions 
of chronological detail, derivation, or literary 
relationship. Xot that he ignores such matters, 
as unworthy of consideration ; but he assumes 
that all such questions. haATng any vital signifi- 
cance for his work, have alreacly been satis- 
factorily answered. This elimination of much 
i^rele^'ant discussion greatly simplifies and in- 
tensifies the total impression of the book. 

The central feature that unifies the author's 
discussion is the prevailing attention focused 
from first to last upon Schiller the dramatist. 
Professor Kiihneman recognizes, more clearly 
than do most critics, the essential peculiarity' of 
the poet's genius. Even in the lyrics of the 
Anthology of 1782, the occasional use of dia- 
logue, as in Hektors Abschied^ reveals the 
antithetical and dramatic trend of SchiUer's 
mind. The same capacity for perceiving ideas 
and relations spatially, and in conflict with 
each other, made for Schiller the ballad-year, 
1798, so signally successfid. For the ballad is 
at its best when saturated with the spirit of the 
drama. SchUler's studies ia the fields of history 
and philosophy were consciously undertaken as 
a means to supply the dramatist with a solid 
substratrmi of definite knowledge. He saw in 
his own ignorance of life, present and past, the 
cause of a ratlical weakness of all his early 
dramas. These were almost exclusively the 
product of an exceptionally ^-i^^d imagination 
nourished by its own fancies. Instead of taking: 
his cue longer from the spider, which spins her 
web out of her own body, Schiller began to 
imitate the bee, which makes honey out of the 
raw material furnished by the most widely 
divergent flowers imaginable. The History 
of the Thirty Years" War, the History of the 

•ScHiLLEB. Von Engen Kuhnemann. Munchen: C. H. 
Becksche Verlags-Buchhandlang. 



Revolt of the Netherlands, and other minor 
historical works, were merely the by-products 
of a mind that recognized in the drama its task 
of prime importance. The remarkable fascina- 
tion exerted upon the reader by these secondary 
works of Schiller's pen is due to his wonderful 
power of distinct visualization and to the imagi- 
nation of the bom dramatist, that transforms 
the epic past into the dramatic present. 

Professor Kiihnemann's clear perception of 
these facts leads him to a method of presentation 
that is equally just to the poet and attractive to 
the reader. The salient features of Schiller's 
outer life-experience are given simply and ade- 
quately in a sequence dictated by the course of 
the poet's dramatic career. The central sub- 
ject of the first hvmdred pages of the book is 
Schiller's earliest drama, Z)^ie R'duher. All 
the suggestive discussion devoted to the poet's 
family, childhood, and school and academy ex- 
perience, is so shaped and timed as to stand in 
vital relation to the later consideration of the 
play. In the school compositions, philosophical 
and scientific, as also in the letters of the young 
poet, our author finds proof of an innate mental 
tendency to proceed from large generalizations 
to their concrete application. This was doubt- 
less strengthened by the whole trend of the 
Karlsschule toward philosophical speculation 
and didacticism, in place of scientific experimen- 
tation and the development of individuality in 
the learner. It accepts as final truth a tradi- 
tional system of ethics, and behind this an 
equally traditional philosophy of the world. As 
a kind of reaction against the prevailing doc- 
trine of his teachers, we may regard Schiller's 
over-emphasis on the material and the sensual, 
as the impelling force in human life, shown in 
his medical dissertations. In this he anticipates 
the cynicism of Franz Moor in the R'duher. 

The Hduber is the most striking illustration 
conceivable of the tendency of the poet to proceed 
mentally from the abstract to the concrete. All 
efforts to portray human society and to reflect 
the world of reality are strictly subordinated to 
the tragic conflict between human will and the 
moral law of the universe. SchiUer saw this 
conflict in large outline, without confusion of 
detail ; and he succeeded, in spite of his igno- 
rance of dramatic technique and of real life, in 
giving us an impressive picture of his vision. 
Franz Moor, the blasphemous scoffer and de- 
nier, and Karl, the incensed and presumptuous 
reformer, who arrogates to himself the office 
of Providence, each meet characteristic defeat 
at the hands of the moral constitution of 



42 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 16, 



things. God is thus vindicated, and is, as Pro- 
fessor Kiihnemann says, the real hero of the 
play. The Titanic revolt and its dreadful 
consequences are conceived by Schiller with 
such vividness and intensity as to render the 
R'duher, in spite of a plot of inconsistencies, 
contradictions, and absurdities, the most re- 
markable first attempt of any dramatist in the 
world's history. The sins of the time, the va- 
garies in its philosophy of life, its social and 
political crimes, are, as our author points out, 
the objects upon which Scluller turns the 
searchlight of his various characters. Unlike 
Shakespeare and Hebbel, who portray the psy- 
chological steps by which an individual deviates 
from the narrow course that alone insures hap- 
piness and continued existence, Schiller sees 
men in masses and imiversalizes their relation to 
the fixed laws of the universe as he conceives it. 

Professor Kiihnemann presents a close and 
suggestive analysis of the play, and continues 
with adequate attention to its inner and outer 
history and to its literary congeners among the 
poet's predecessors and contemporaries. In 
approximately two hundred pages, he then fol- 
lows the development of Schiller's art, from 
his flight from the Karlsschule to his first 
residence in Weimar. Three dramas are the 
central subject of this part of the work. The 
author's sketch of the distressing and cheering 
elements of the poet's life in Stuttgart, Oggers- 
heim, Bauerbach, Mannheim, Leipzig, and 
Dresden, prefaces his consideration of Fiesko, 
Kabale und Liehe^ and Don Carlos. Due 
weight is given to the mfluence of persecution, 
disappointment, ill-health, friendship, love, and 
popidar success, upon shaping the mind and 
work of the dramatist. 

Fiesko was conceived almost simultaneously 
with Die R'duber^ and hence is the fruit of a 
similar psychological process. Yet our critic 
calls attention to several striking differences 
between these works. Die Rduher deals with 
contemporary life, and is nevertheless, in point 
of landscape, society, and individual portraits, 
almost wholly a work of the free imagination. 
Fiesko is based upon the life of the past ; and 
yet in it the poet has taken conscious pains to 
present a convincing picture of reality. The 
spirit of protest, so potent a factor in the texture 
of the li'duher, yields here to an elaborate por- 
trayal of society and the world. To match the 
gigantic protest embodied m the fantastic rob- 
bers and their symbolic day of judgment, Fiesko 
presents the idea of republican freedom. A 
coup d'etat takes the place of the day of judg- 



ment, mth a corresponding drop in pitch and 
intensity. 

While Karl Moor's outraged sense of right 
and justice is the mainspring of his action, 
Fiesko'' s love of freedom is so largely mingled 
with mere passion for glory and worldly ambi- 
tion as to render him almost unworthy of tragic 
pity. The action of the Rduher is pushed to 
a point where the moral order of the universe 
stands revealed triumphant in the opposite poles 
of humanity, represented by the brothers Moor. 
Thus the disturbed equilibrium is restored. 
The fall of Fiesko, and the continuance of the 
old regime iinder Andreas Doria, offer by com- 
parison but a feeble solution of the problem. A 
reason for this deterioration. Professor Kiihne- 
mann finds in Schiller's fatuous belief that a 
realistic picture of a conspirac;/, prompted by 
love of republican freedom, must necessarily be 
quite as significant as the imaginative picture of 
the Rduher. 

Professor Kiilmemann emphasizes the success 
of the poet in giving to the motley forms and 
tendencies of his picture of social life imity and 
the semblance of reality. But he also shows the 
vmnaturally political bias of all these representa- 
tives of republican freedom. " They feel and 
act not as natural but as political human be- 
ings." They are too often but incarnations of 
an abstract idea. Schiller does not yet succeed 
in creating convincing characters, capable of 
acting like real men and women of flesh and 
blood, and also of embodying his poetic inten- 
tion. He too frequently permits them to sub- 
stitute for the views and expressions natural to 
them either their author's conunent upon them 
or high-keyed declamation of the abstract ideas 
of their creator. 

Schiller's next drama, Kahale und Liehe, 
illustrates his power of discerning the sources 
of his previous success and failure, and of apply- 
ing this knowledge to a new problem. After his 
doubtfid experiment with Genoese history, he 
returned, in his third venture, to his own con- 
temporaneous country. German society as then 
constituted, with its class distinctions and class 
prejudices, and with its clash of class with class, 
is the source of the tragedy in this work. The 
conflict between the natural right of a man to 
love according to the promptings of his own 
heart, on the one hand, and the world of social 
convention and prescription on the other, is the 
occasion of the action. So we have here, as in 
the Rduher, a mighty spirit of protest, justified 
by notorioiis social abuses. As our critic says, if 
the poet's premise of the natural right to follow 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



43 



the lead of the heart in love is admitted, then 
the society he depicts stands convicted of crime. 
Professor Kuhnemann praises the choice of sub- 
ject, the effective introduction, with its realistic 
picture of the Miller family, the compact and 
well-balanced structure of the drama, and the 
full-rounded and dignified characters of Luise 
and Ferdinand in the second half of the action. 
But he clearly sees the weaknesses of the play. 
Preponderance of theatrical instinct over clear 
poetic vision occasionally produces exigencies of 
the intrigue quite incompatible with the character 
of the men and women involved. The intrigue, 
by remaining in the foregroimd, deploying its 
ugliness, and precipitating the conflict during 
the first half of the action, condemns Luise and 
Ferdinand to passive roles, in which they fail to 
show any personality whatever. Moreover the 
persons of the inti-igue are a pliant coxcomb and 
two munitigated scoimdrels. The running satire 
of the poet through their words makes clear that 
they are deliberately Avithout conscience, ruth- 
less, and wicked. They might be otherwise, if 
they would. Hence they do not belong to the 
world of real men, whose virtues and vices are 
the necessary product of the natural law of their 
being. We miss, therefore, in their conflict with 
the children of light, that element of the inev- 
itable inseparable from the highest form of trag- 
edy. The whole remains rather a lyric cry of 
intense indignation against wanton oppression. 

In his interesting sketch of the position of 
Schiller's Kahale und Liehe in the history of 
occidental middle-class drama, from Richardson 
through Rousseau, Lessing, etc., to Hebbel, 
Ibsen, and Gerliard Hauptmann, our author 
emphasizes the unique relation of Hebbel to 
Schiller. The tragic element of middle-class 
life, as conceived by Schiller, is not inherent in 
the life of the class as such, but hinges rather 
upon the accidental and temjjoral relation of 
class to class in the society and state of his own 
day ; whereas Hebbel shows, in his Maria Mag- 
dalena (1844), that the narrow relations of 
middle-class life produce ine\'itably a narrow- 
horizoned and strait-laced ethical consciousness 
and sense of honor, which is at once the highest 
spiritual manifestation of this range of hmnan 
life, and, by its stem severity of judgment, the 
source of intense tragic conflicts. 

What Professor Kiihnemann says of Don 
Carlos — of its genesis, its original conception 
and the completed work, the three dramas 
within the cU-ama, the Eboli scenes, and the 
catastrophe — is all well worth while. We can 
mention here but two points of his discussion. 



In Don Carlos^ Schiller succeeds for the first 
time in dramatizing history. He sees the con- 
fiict between the cause of hmnanity and the 
Spanish Inquisition in the serene confidence of 
his new belief in the invincible power of good 
over evil. He no longer protests as a social 
pessiniLst. He acknowledges the necess^uy of 
reckoning with historical conditions and their 
upholders, as inevitable facts of life. They 
may be bad; in that case they can and must 
eventually be changed. They may not yield 
without many a tragic sacrifice of the hopes, 
aspu-ations, and lives of good men. And this 
fills the beholder not with the spirit of revolt, 
but with compassion and tragic pity. Save for 
a few lapses into his old manner, Schiller draws 
the representatives of the Inquisition with as- 
impartial a distribution of light and shadow as 
he does the Prince and Posa. They are all live 
men — some of them even great men. This is 
striking proof of the increasing ripeness of the 
poet's views of life and art. 

Our author takes exception to a widespread 
current view that does Schiller a double injus- 
tice. This is the identification of Don Carlos 
with the liigh-water mark of the poet's dramatic 
art, and a misconception of that humanity which 
is here the object of his enthusiasm and his 
pathos. For, great as is the superiority of this 
drama over the earlier group of his tragedies, 
the gidf that separates Don Carlos from the 
creations of his fidl maturity is still greater. 
And the humanity which is the especial care 
and inspii-ation of the Prince and his friend is 
no mere abstraction, as is commonly supposed. 
It means the power and originality of the per- 
sonal life, that maintains itself and is operative 
against all beniunbing and deadening forms and 
traditions. It means the right to one's self, the 
freedom of the children of God in their creative 
enjoyment of the fulness of existence. 

Professor Kiihnemann devotes about two 
hundi-ed pages to the period between Schiller's 
first residence in Weimar and the completion 
of Wallenstein, and the remainder of the book 
(something over a hundred pages) to the closing 
years of the poet's life. The well-known outer 
facts of his experience in Weimar and Jena, his 
love, friendships, and domestic life, his studies in 
history, philosophy, and the Greek drama, his 
professorship, his journalistic activity, his his- 
torical essays and philosophical poems, and his 
ballads, receive adequate attention in a natural 
sequence that is chiefly chronological. In an 
important sense, all these elements stand in a 
causal relation with that degree of maturity 



44 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 16, 



reflected in his later dramas. Through the 
study of history, philosophy, and the Greek 
stage, he came into touch with the master-mind 
of Goethe and made possible that give-and-take 
friendship which proved so stimidating and help- 
fid to both men. The earnest effort of SchiUer 
to define to himself the difference between the 
natural working of his own mind and that of 
Goethe proved the occasion not only of the fh'st 
real introduction of the friends to each other, 
but also of suggestive critical studies, em- 
bodied in the essay of 1795, upon Naive und 
/Sentimentalische Dichtung. Schiller's obli- 
gation to Goethe is generally emphasized by the 
critics ; they sometimes overlook, or at any rate 
fail to mention, the great obligation of Goethe 
to Schiller during the eleven years of their joint 
activity. Professor Kiihnemann is explicit upon 
both points. He says that Schiller was brought 
by Goethe into a new relation to things, — a 
new relation to reality, — and that Goethe was 
enlightened by Schiller as to the wealth of his 
own ideas. Goethe's service consisted simply 
in meeting Schiller familiarly and giving him a 
chance to comprehend and appropriate his habit 
of looking at things objectively and securing 
concrete mental pictures of the world and of 
human life. Schiller stimulated Goethe to re- 
newed poetic activity, called his attention to 
omissions of argument or to theses that needed 
more carefid elucidation, and made him aware 
of the unnoticed bearing of some earlier thought. 
And to the spur of Schiller's encouragement and 
constructive criticism we owe the completion of 
the First Part of Faust. 

Wallenstein marks the beginning of a new 
period of dramatic activity in Schiller. It is 
essentially different from all of the poet's earlier 
tragedies and from all previous productions 
of German literature. Professor Kiihnemann 
speaks at length of the wealth of intellectual and 
emotional experience that immediately preceded 
and accompanied the genesis of this work. He 
mentions the various interruptions and changes 
of plan, many of which are reflected in the 
drama itself, and in Schiller's correspondence 
from January 12, 1791, to March 17, 1799. 
He emphasizes the fundamental difficulties in- 
herent in the material — the embarrassing wealth 
of facts to be communicated ; the various inde- 
pendent political plans of Illo, Questenberg, 
Oktavio, Buttler, and many others, to be coordi- 
nated ; a morally reprehensible undertaking of 
political ambition to be rendered imposing and 
attractive, in spite of its physical fadure through 
WaUenstein's own clumsiness. And, most for- 



midable of all, perhaps, for Schiller's art was 
the cold intellectuality, the hard-lined calcula- 
ting nature, of Wallenstein himself. All the 
heroes of Schiller's previous dramas are idealists 
of one sort and another. In Wallenstein he 
recognizes the realist, a representative of a class 
to which the world belongs. This man must 
never appear really noble, and in no act of the 
play really great or full of dignity. Under the 
stress of necessity, he must try with shrewdness 
to hold his ground, but always without sacri- 
ficing himseK for the sake of lofty ideas. To 
effect the tragic shock, and awaken tragic pity 
through such a character, was the new task for 
Schiller's art. His complaint to Goethe, in the 
letter of November 28, 1796, that destiny, in 
the proper sense of the word, still had too little, 
and WaUenstein's own error too much, to do 
with his misfortune, has often been misunder- 
stood. Critics have quoted it to supjwrt weird 
theories as to Schiller's idea of destiny. What 
he evidently meant, as Professor Kiihnemann 
shows, was the need of substituting for the 
accidental clumsiness of the individual man 
the lofty, inner, unavoidable necessity of a life 
governed by fixed laws. Schdler's aim in this 
drama is to present, in place of the splendor of 
eloquent details, a convincing picture of human 
life ; and in place of self -intoxication in soaring 
rhetoric, the tonic of simple concrete truth. His 
method is based consciously upon observation of 
Sophocles's King (Edipus. He himseK calls it 
the method of tragic analysis. It consists in 
confining the visible action of the tragedy to an 
unfolding of the consequences of previous acts 
and occurrences. 

In Wallenstein s Lager we have sharply 
individualized groups of characteristic soldiery, 
suggesting, in aU its fulness of life, color, and 
movement, the army. These jolly or quarrel- 
some, gambling, dancing, flirting, and carousing 
soldiers and hangers-on all appear in the per- 
spective of the mass to which they belong. 
The order of their appearance is chosen with 
consmnmate skiU, so as to give the semblance 
of reality. For the whole motley army of poly- 
glot troops, the as yet invisible commander-in- 
chief is the vicegerent of God on earth. Against 
their enthusiasm for him not even the fanatical 
preaching of the dull servants of the church is 
of any avail. It is a vivid genre picture, rival- 
ing the best work of the old Dutch masters, 
and furnisliing striking proof of the poet's new 
skiU in objective delineation and in the dramatic 
use of masses of men. His success in this latter 
point is the fruit of an inborn tendency, shown 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



46 



in all his earlier plays, under the discipline of in- 
tensive study of the Greeks and of Shakespeare. 
Schiller lays especial stress, in his study of 
Wallenstein, upon the elements of history that 
mouldetl the man. In this, as Professor Kiihne- 
mann urges, he differs radically from Shake- 
speare. The British poet would have focused 
attention throughout upon the demoniac nature 
of Wallenstein's mind, — upon the tragedy of 
unbridled, self-<lestructive ambition to rule. The 
surroundings of the man would have remained 
the xmaccented syllable. Schiller presents sym- 
bolically, through the general's associates, that 
historical en^4ronment under the influence of 
which Wallenstein's temperament, self-confi- 
dence, ambition, and superstition succumb to 
temptation. Illo, Isolani, Buttler, and Oktavio 
Piccolomini. each sharply individualized and 
pro^^ded \^'ith his o\^ti philosophy of life, are 
chief among these associates. Each of them is 
in a sense a creature of the commander, em- 
bodying in characteristic fashion the demoniac 
principle of WaUenstein's mind. Hence the hero 
of the tragedy is a sort of composite total of all 
these indi\'iduals. He is an organic part of that 
body of relations and influences, dominated by 
inmiutable laws, that is the destiny of man. 
His belief in astrology is the S}Tnbol of his o\*ti 
implicit confidence in the absolute necessity of 
things. But it is also a defect in his own nature, 
blinding him to the approach of his impending 
doom, that is plainly visible to everyone else. 
In this he resembles King (Edipus ; but while 
the Greeks conceivetl Destiny as a wholly super- 
human, inscrutable necessity, before which gods 
and men must bow, Schiller regards it as the 
unchanging regularity of the laws of life ^sithout 
and within the uidi\'idual. Max and Thekla 
are the only idealists in the drama. They are 
bound to WaUenstein by ties of blood and 
affection. They reflect his emotional life, as the 
others reflect his iateUect and his ambition. In 
their uinocence and disinterestedness, they sym- 
bolize the Beautiful in human life. Schiller's 
view as to the rightful place of the Beautiful 
and of Art in life, already expressetl in his phil- 
osophical \NTitings, is hei-e dramatized. They 
are also a mirror in which the repulsive selfish- 
ness and faithlessness of the others, and the 
shadow of the approaching Nemesis, are seen. 
The transformation of their idyU into an elegy 
is part of the tragic catastrophe that over- 
whelms Wallenstein. But Schiller remained an 
idealist to the end of his life, and does not here 
imply, as Professor Kiihnemann seems to think, 
that Max and Thekla have no place in the 



world. What he does seem to imply is that a 
world of hard-lined realism and selfish stri^-ing, 
like that of Wallenstein and his circle, whose 
one-sidedness excludes and crushes the idealists 
and the beautiful in life, is eo ipso a world of 
tragic catastrophes. 

We must pass over a wealth of suggestive 
and helpful discussion offered by our author 
in connection with this tragedy, and with the 
dramas of Maria Stuart, Die Jungfrau von 
Orleans, Die Braxit von Messina^ Wilhelm 
Tell, and with the important Demetrius frag- 
ment. The main feature of it all consists in 
tracing through these diverse materials and 
forms the substance of Schiller's later concep- 
tion of human life, destiny, and dramatic style. 
From cover to cover, the book is fascinatingly 
\^'ritten. The author's style is simple, flexible, 
and strong, but slightly marred by a few unne- 
cessary repetitions and infelicities of expression, 
that can easily be removed in a second edition. 
Its warm appreciation of the peculiarity of 
Schiller's genius and intelligent insight into the 
essentials of good literature, ancient and mod- 
em, render it a worthy companion-piece to the 
same author's Herder, and one of the most illu- 
minating and suggestive books yet written upon 
the greatest German dramatist. 

Stake Willard Cutting. 



Sea Power ajtd thge "Wak of 1812. 



Captain Mahan's notable series of naval his- 
tories is now complete; and if anything were 
needed to establish his position in the foremost 
rank of historical writers, his latest contribution 
to that series — " Sea Power in its Relations to 
the War of 1812*' — would fully supply the 
demand. Like the companion volxmies of " The 
Influence of Sea Power upon History " and 
" The Influence of Sea Power upon the French 
Revolution and Empire," this cro\^Tiing labor is 
characterized by great philosophic insight and 
masterly arrangement of details, but it far sur- 
passes its predecessors in its abundant evidences 
of independent and painstaking investigation. 
Access has been had, as the preface intimates 
and the footnotes show, to the public records of 
Great Britain, Canada, and the United States, to 
the published correspondence of various promi- 
nent men of the period, and to the unpublished 
private papers of Lord Castlereagh. Such a 

*Ska Powek is its Relations to the Wak of 1812. By 
Captain A. T. Mahan. In two volames. Illustrated. Boston: 
Little. Brown, &, Co. 



46 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 16, 



mustering of original and contemporary sources 
is a sufficient guarantee of inestimable worth, 
especially when an historian of our author's 
tyjpe — judicious, conscientious, and withal ac- 
curate — has had the handling of them. 

The second war with Great Britain occupied 
less than three years; yet Captain Mahan, pos- 
sibly because he is dealing with the history of 
his own country or because he is treading upon 
very familiar ground, has given it a propor- 
tionately larger amount of space than he gave 
his earlier themes. Precisely two-thirds of the 
first volume, or fourteen chapters of the entire 
work, are devoted to a discussion of the com- 
mercial complications that underlay the strug- 
gle, one chapter to a description of the theatre 
of operations and to a general criticism of the 
insufficiency of American resources, twelve 
chapters to the war itself, and a single chapter 
to a much abbreviated and rather superficial 
account of the peace negotiations. The material, 
except in the case of minor though contributory 
details, is not new, indeed much of it was sum- 
marized by Captain Mahan himself in a series of 
articles — advance sheets, so to speak — that 
appeared two years ago in " Scribner's Maga- 
zine "; but the presentation of it is so logical, so 
fascinatingly clear and unprejudiced, that the mi- 
pression conveyed is one of striking originality. 

The opening pages of the book have, in gxeat 
degree, the nature and scope of an introduction. 
They point out pre-revolutionary experiences 
and conditions as determining causes of later 
events, and in this they are extremely interest- 
ing. British thought with respect to maritime 
development presented, from Cromwell's time 
down, a continuity that greatly impressed public 
opinion. A course of action long and successfully 
persisted in must perforce be right and just. 
Consequently the national consciousness never 
once swerved from the idea that the navy was the 
bxdwark of imperial power, and that, as it was 
recruited from the mercantile marine, the growth 
of the carrying trade must be a first considera- 
tion. The thirteen colonies had already shown 
commercial aptitude ; in the northeast they had 
developed shipping industries ; and now having 
obtained political independence, they were likely 
to prove formidable competitors in the naviga- 
tion of the world. It was necessary to curtail 
their opportunities. It was also necessary to 
fill in the gap that their revolution had made in 
the empire by developing the resources of other 
transatlantic dominions, particularly of Canada 
and the West Indies, whither the Tories whom 
loyalty had made exiles and to whom the home 



government felt somewhat indebted had found a 
refuge. Naturally enough, all measures having 
these things for their object were regarded with 
suspicion by the new republic. The provincial- 
ism that had formed a misconception of the pur- 
pose of the navigation laws was predisposed to 
designate the taking away of privileges enjoyed 
as colonists as a gross subversion of justice. 

Especial praise is due the author for that 
part of his book which deals with the more 
inunediate causes of the War of 1812 ; for there 
he has with his accustomed impartiality placed 
the policy and conduct of Great Britain in 
proper perspective. This is a really strong point, 
a feature most distinctive. Other ^vriters have 
usually regarded the irritating events of the 
period as instances of a lingering tyranny on 
the part of the mother country; but Captain 
Mahan has viewed them in their larger aspect, 
— namely, in their relation to the Napoleonic 
wars. His treatment of the subject of Impress- 
ment is liighly conmiendable, due weight being 
given to the many extenuating circumstances. 
Great Britain, the constant force of the succes- 
sive coalitions, was engaged in a life and death 
struggle with despotism. Her navy was her 
great, and alm6st her only, resource ; but the 
service in it was necessarily long and arduous 
and the pay was small. Desertions were ruin- 
ously frequent ; for across the Atlantic was a 
new country with all the economic advantages 
of a new country. British sailors, even before 
the Revolution, had manned its ships and knew 
of its facilities. Furthermore, there an easy 
naturalization system prevailed which was con- 
trary to all recognized principles of national 
allegiance. Nowhere, except in that infant com- 
mmiity, eager for settlers, had it yet been 
acknowledged that the power of expatriation 
resides in the individual. Great Britain claimed 
the right to apprehend her own deserters ; but 
she never did claim the right to impress Ameri- 
can seamen. Cases of mistaken identity were, 
however, very nvmierous, owing to the fact that 
the people of the two countries, one in origin, 
were not yet distinguishable from each other by 
peculiarities of dress, speech, or mamiers. Brit- 
ish officers, moreover, greatly annoyed by a dis- 
graceful traffic in fraudident certificates of 
citizenship, were not inclined to take any great 
precautions against errors. 

In his strictures upon Jefferson's policy of 
economy, seeming partiality for the French, and 
impotent measures of retaliation for national in- 
sidts, Captain Mahan has been justly severe. 
Realizing that the United States was too much 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



47 



engrossed in money-making, too much divided 
by conflicting sectional interests, and too much 
conti-olled by a peace-lo^nng president to take 
any chances in war. Great Britain adopted with 
impimity such measures as woidd counteract 
the e^-il effects of the Continental System, even 
though well aware that they woidd react dis- 
astrously upon neutrals. The only neutral of 
any consequence was the United States, and she 
was scarcely worth considering ; for Jefferson's 
gunboat system had effectually prevented the 
growth of a regular na\y. She might protest, 
but her protests were bound to be mere bluster. 
The wonder to us now is, that she could have 
so steadily drifted towards war and have made 
absolutely no preparation for it. Her embargo 
and non-intercourse laws failed of their object 
and operated against herself. Nothing could 
have been more to the purpose of Napoleon 
than the American declaration of war in 1812. 
Craft and subtlety had done their work. The 
pity of it aU was that the United States, griev- 
ously injured by both France and Great Britain, 
went to war with the wrong party. She, the 
exponent of liberty, had — let us hope uninten- 
tionally — played completely into the hands of 
the arch-<lespot. Napoleon, whose pretended 
revocation of the obnoxious decrees and con- 
temptible ante-dating to avoid a too glaring ex- 
posure of fraud and duplicity are all graphically 
narratetl by Captain Mahan. 

It has been traditional in American history 
to consider the War of 1812 as a signal success 
for the aggrieved party. Opinions to the con- 
trary, although held by all first-class historians 
and supported by the best of evidence, have 
never reached the masses. There was no organ- 
ized warfare on the ocean, but the brilliancy of 
that on the Great Lakes and of single ship 
actions at sea has almost obscvired the real dis- 
asters on land. Upon the history- of hostilities 
proper. Captain Mahan has probably said the 
last word. No one but a man rich in profes- 
sional experience could so ably deal with naval 
exploits. His criticisms of the army equipment 
are all well-substantiated, and his narrative 
bears close comparison with Napier's " Peninsu- 
lar War." The sustained effort is, perhaps, not 
so great, but there is the same skill in dealing 
with technicalities, the same dramatic power in 
description. The whole is excellent reading. 

It is unfortunate that the final chapter of this 
really scholarly work is not in itself an impor- 
tant contribution to historical knowledge. We 
had every reason to expect considerable new 
light upon the negotiations at Ghent, and are 



disappointed that neither here nor in the October 
number of the "American Historical Review" 
has Captain Mahan told us much more than we 
already knew about the influence upon them 
of European conditions. That it was great, we, 
although destitute of documentary evidence, feel 
pretty well assured. In no other way can we 
adequately explain Great Britain's change of 
front. The United States had practically ac- 
complished little by the war. The one thing 
she had set out to do she had failed in ; and 
Great Britain, relieved from embarrassment by 
the downfall of Napoleon, was at first inclined 
to exact a humiliating peace. To what extent 
the attitude of the other Allied Powers or the 
transactions of the Congress of Vienna com- 
pelled concessions is matter for conjecture. 

In point of literary merit, Captain Mahan's 
latest extended production needs little comment. 
An occasional awkward or incomplete sentence 
occurs, but we notice this fact only because we 
dislike to see even so slight a blemish upon a 
style so nearly perfect. The index to the two 
volumes is not so good as it might be, but the 
table of contents is remarkably full. The dia- 
grams and maps are very instructive; the illus- 
trations, lx)th half-tones and gravures, though 
few in nimiber, are in keeping with the general 
high character of the work; and the half-tone 
portraits are all copies of authentic likenesses, 
some of them from paintings by Gilbert Stuart. 
AxNA Heloise Abel. 



The Greatest of Moderx Gardexeks.* 

In " New Creations in Plant Life " Mr. W. S. 
Harwood gives us a very complete account of the 
life and work of Mr. Luther Burbank, the famous 
gardener and experimenter of Santa Rosa. Mr. 
Buibank, like many other things in California, 
has siiffered from excess of newspaper publicity 
— suffered in all ways, in person, reputation, and 
estate. The volume before us should in this 
respect bring relief : it is sufficiently fvdl, toler- 
ably well written, authentic, and prepared under 
the direction of the gardener himseK. 

For Mr. Burbank the claim has been often 
made that he is the most remarkable gardener 
that has ever lived. A simple statement of his 
accomplishments would seem fairly to justify the 
claim. He has given to the orchards of Cali- 
fornia some twenty different varieties of plums 
alone, several apples, improved blackberries. 



*Nbw Cbeations in Plant Life. By W. S. Harwood. 
trated. New York : The Macmillan Co. 



nius- 



48 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 16, 



raspberries, etc., besides several fruits which 
are to be reckoned wholly new, as the priinus- 
berry, formed by uniting the raspberry and 
the blackberry; the pltuncot, a combination of 
apricot and plum ; and the pomato, resultant 
from the union of the potato and tomato plants. 
Mr. Harwood's praise of these things, and his 
eulogy of their creator, will strike some readers 
as excessive, and raise the suspicion that he also 
is a Calif ornian. It should be remembered, 
also, that Mr. Burbank's triumphs are in kind 
hardly to be reckoned as new ; they are exactly 
in line with the work of all gardeners in all the 
centuries. Shakespeare teaches Perdita to 

"marry 
A gentler scion to the wildest stock, 
And make conceive a bark of baser kind 
By bud of nobler race." 

And Pliny tells us how, two thousand years 
ago, men " in Grenada began to graft plvuns on 
apples, and these brought forth plxmis called 
apple-plums ; also others called almond-plums." 
Peach trees have been known on occasion to bear 
apricots, and apricot trees to bear peaches ; and 
this without anybody's suggestion. In fact, 
whence come all our cultivated grains and 
fruits ? Do these not represent the wise selec- 
tion and careful culture of scores of unknown 
gardeners all down along our ancestral way? 
Mr. Burbank's methods are not new, and to 
all the gardeners of the past is he indebted 
for the materials on which he has wrought his 
shining work. The diiference lies chiefly in the 
fact that our latest artist has carried his work so 
much further, and into imexpected fields ; that he 
experiments so much more widely, and on such 
a tremendous scale. Darwin called all this sort 
of work artificial, as opposed to natural, selec- 
tion ; Mr. Burbank simply applies artificial selec- 
tion to hundreds of thousands of plants at one 
time, and then, by grafting, goes on to attain 
results much more speedily than has hitherto 
been done. 

Mr. Burbank's work has been of the highest 
economic importance ; he has contributed largely 
to the wealth of his adopted State. But a great 
deal of his experimentation has had no com- 
mercial end in view ; he has been, in so far, a 
true investigator, seeking a better knowledge of 
the wondrous processes of the natural world. 
Much of his work, accordmgly, has scientific 
value. His successes and failures alike confirm 
or confute our accepted biologic theories. Does 
DeVries argue that species take origin in muta- 
tions, sudden departures from some supposed 
established type? — Mr. Burbank will show him a 
thousand strange variations, nnitations, effected 



by cross-breeding ; do the supporters of Mendel 
affirm the law of probabilities in the outcome of 
a cross? — the Santa Rosa gardens seem to show 
an indiscriminate breaking up of all established 
characteristics of either species, as if in reversion 
to all the indefinite variations of the long history 
of the past. 

In the conduct of his experiments during 
these later years, Mr. Burbank has largely 
consumed his own resources accumulated during 
long service as a professional nurseryman. For- 
tunately, however, for both science and hor- 
ticulture, the Carnegie Foundation for the 
promotion of research has lately come to his 
assistance, and experimentation may now go 
forward unhindered by embarrassment of any 
financial sort. 

Mr. Harwood is evidently not a man of sci- 
ence, but his book, filled with apt and beautiful 
illustrations, will present to the general reader 
a reasonably clear conception of Mr. Burbank's 
title to fame. Here one may read of spmeless 
cacti and pitless prunes, of never-fading flowers, 
and trees that rise in stature like those that 
grow in dreams. The volume is handsomely 
printed, and typographical and other errata are 
unusuaUy few. Thomas H. Macbride. 



Briefs on New Books. 



„,.,, ,, Readers of Philippine literatiu'e have 

still another , , , . .^ , 

volume about doubtless anticipated a piece oi au- 
tfie Phiiippiiies. thoritative work in Professor F. W. 
Atkinson's book "The Philippine Islands" (Ginn 
& Co.). Mr. Atkinson has had the best of oppor- 
tunities for observation. He was the fii'st General 
Superintendent of Education in the Phllij)pines; 
and in the performance of his duties he was called 
upon to travel in almost every part of the Ai'chipel- 
ago. In this way he was enabled to observe actual 
conditions at first-hand, while through his official 
position he was brought into direct contact with 
many Anerican officers and native leaders who 
knew of what they spoke. Mr. Atkinson's book, 
however, covers ground already made familiar by 
the reports of the Philippine Commission, whUe it 
fails to touch upon those problems which are to-day 
central in the islands. Of a total of 412 pages, the 
author devotes about 100 to ancient Philippine his- 
tory and geography. Some 22 pages are then given 
to the history of the period 1896-1905, but of these 
only about four pages (eliminating illustrations, and 
counting only actual type ) describe matters relating 
to the American occupation. About 200 pages are 
occupied with climate, questions of public health, 
racial peculiarities, religion, etc., after which there 
are 35 pages of routine description of our govern- 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



49 



ment. The remainder of the book — about 40 pages 
— deals with Education. This latter section is by 
far the most valuable portion of the work, for here 
the writer has apparently felt at libertj' to speak 
with somewhat less restraint than elsewhere, and to 
give expression to his own views. It is not an en- 
tirely hopeful outlook that he presents. He admits 
the lack of efficient native teachers, practically 
concetles that the American teachers who were 
first engaged were selected under conditions which 
made it hard to get the best results, and grants that 
industrial education has not been advanced to the 
point that insular interests require. However, he 
defends the policy of introducing English as a lan- 
g^nage of instruction- and maintains that the natives 
are anxious to learn it although the reasons assigned 
are chiefly the desire to hold office and to acquire 
the social position resulting from its use. In addi- 
tion, he favors the introduction of the language as 
a means of terminating the intellectual isolation of 
the Philippines. The book as a whole, especially 
in its earlier portions, gives the impression of having 
often been read before, and follows with minute 
care the official view at almost every point Even 
the illustrations are the stock photographs which 
appear in all Philippine reports. IVIr. Atkinson, how- 
ever, is not whoUy able to maintain the optimistic 
attitude. In his conclusion, he points out that the 
civil government is still retarded by ladronism, 
while economic conditions have been greatly im- 
paired and '' unexpected weakness of character " 
among some of the administrative officers has been 
a drawback to political confidence and advance- 
ment. In spite of all this. Mr. Atkinson maintains 
in his closing paragraph that *' the outlook is bright 
for the Filipinos." though on what the observation 
is based does not fully appear from the book itself. 

There are few men whose life-story 
presents more of striking contraste 
and of the elements that lend interest 
to the telling than does that of James G. Blaine ; and 
it very appropriately opens the new series of "Ameri- 
can Statesmen" (Houghton. Miffin & Co.). The au- 
thor, Mr. Edward Stanwood. who had already won 
recognition for his editorial and historical work, does 
not approach his work as an academic task : he 
frankly states that he was an intimat* personal friend 
of ^Ir. Blaine, and that he writes as one who believed 
in him and followed him. But he has shown so 
evident a desire to be fair in his discussion of the 
various bitter controversies that were waged around 
his chief, that we foUow him with interest and in 
the main with acceptance of his positions. It may 
not be out of place to say that the writer of this 
notice was one of those who left his party rather 
than vote for Mr. Blaine, believing him to be an 
unfit man for the presidency ; but that he is now con- 
vinced that !Mr. Blaine was charged with far more 
than he should have been charged with, and that 
the worst that can fairly be said of him is that his 
conduct in the financial transactions laid to him was 



A famotu 

Sepublican 

ttatetman. 



indelicate rather than dishonorable, while his life as 
a whole was actuated by real public spirit. The 
author takes up Mr. Blaine's public life from his 
assimiption of the editorship of the " Kennebec 
Journal " in 1854, at the age of twenty-four, and 
follows it through its various phases, local and 
national. But two other Americans have won such 
hearty personal allegiance to themselves and their 
fortimes as did Mr. Blaine, and been the objects of 
such personal devotion. The " Plumed Knight," as 
he was called by his enthusiastic followers, was for 
some fifteen years perhaps the foremost leader of the 
Republican party. He was a political leader of un- 
rivalled skill in attack and defense, a real statesman 
in some of his conceptions, a forcible speaker and a 
remarkable debater. He has in addition left behind 
him one historical work of great value. With all his 
successes, there were failures as great ; with his re- 
markable popularity, he encountered opposition such 
as almost no other public man has met. His career 
is well termed dramatic in its nature and develop- 
ment, and the present biographer has brought out 
skilfully its dramatic elements. Perhaps Mr. Blaine's 
largest title to lasting fame lies in his work as Secre- 
tarj' of State. He led the way from the tradition^ 
policy of isolation toward a new position of the 
United States in the affairs of the world, — an im- 
perialist before the imperialism of these later days 
was even thought of. At that time his policy was 
criticised by the average conservative citizen as 
dangerous, though we have now actually gone much 
further in the direction that Mr. Blaine merely 
dreamed of ; but he was the pioneer in the change, 
and in this and other ways he influenced the general 
tendency of the political thought of his countrymen. 

"When a President of the United 
States presents for public inspection 
a book written by himself, the read- 
ing world may be expected to open it with keen 
curiosity, whatever the subject which it treats. 
President Roosevelt's latest work, "Outdoor Pas- 
times of an American Hunter " ( Scribner ) is mainly 
a compilation of magazine articles and monographs 
which have appeared from time to time upon one 
of his favorite topics, American wild game and the 
pursuit and study thereof. Of the eleven chapters 
that make up the book, two — "A Colorado Bear- 
Hunt " and " Wolf-Coursing " — relate his experi- 
ences upon his outing last Sprihg ; the one entitled 
"With the Cougar Hoimds " details his adventures 
during his previous Colorado hunting-trip, in 1901 ; 
" Wilderness Reserves " is devoted largely to the 
Yellowstone outing. These four chapters are com- 
paratively new : the concluding chapter, " At Home," 
is quite so. The other chapters, aside from the one 
entitled '* Books on Big Game," have been in circu- 
lation some time as monographs upon the deer fam- 
ily, but have been considerably revised for the 
purposes of the present volume. Mr. Roosevelt's 
style is, as usual, practical and prosaic, almost un- 
imaginative. But the volume is well-nigh cyclo- 



Pretident 
Rootevelt 
at a hunter. 



50 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 16, 



psedic upon the ground it covers. The author 
gathers large stores of information, and does not 
jump at conclusions. He is scrupulous as to the 
accuracy of the smallest details, paying as much at- 
tention to ascertaining the correct name of the tiniest 
bird that flits before him as to following the trail of 
the bear or cougar. In giving details of the actual 
chase and killing of the mountain lion, he includes 
much interesting matter regarding the habits of this 
animal and of the bob-cat, the character of the 
country hunted over, and the animal and plant life 
found there. Frequently throughout the book, and 
especially in his chapter upon the Yellowstone Park, 
Mr. Roosevelt emphasizes the need for more national 
reserves, wherein nature shall be protected and the 
extermination of animal life prevented ; he urges 
forcefully that the Grand Canyon of the Colorado 
be made a national park. The chapter upon '"'Books 
on Big Game " wUl be foimd valuable to both the 
sportsman and the bibliophile. In the final chapter, 
"At Home," the President gives a genial account 
of the out-door life of himself and family at Saga- 
more Hill, their excursions and their pets, and the 
wild creatures of Long Island. The volume is pro- 
fusely illustrated from photographs, and is dedicated 
to the veteran naturalist, John Burroughs. 

Pictures of There are few places of historic in- 

eourt life under terest which demand so much of the 
Louts XIV. visitor as Versailles. Many travel- 

lers are disappointed at seeing there nothing but an 
endless succession of rooms and miles of historical 
paintings. They are unable to look at the chateau 
and the park as the magnificent if somewhat tar- 
nished frame of a vanished picture, the court and 
government of the old Bourbon monarchy. Bae- 
deker, in a few paragraphs, cannot set them right. 
To such persons, Mr. James Eugene Farmer's 
"Versailles and the Court under Louis XIV." 
(The Century Co.) offers an opportunity of really 
understanding the place. The book wiU be of even 
greater interest to many who already know Ver- 
sailles, but wish to recall in detail the figures that 
once peopled these empty rooms and corridors. The 
book is arranged conveniently. The first two parts 
describe the chateau and the park, giving the his- 
tory and the use of the principal apartments and 
promenades. The description is enlivened by anec- 
dotes of the incidents which rendered each spot 
famous. The mixture of information and of enter- 
taining gossip is uniformly judicious, and as one 
passes from room to room, instead of feeling an in- 
creasing sense of weariness, one's cm-iosity is piqued, 
and one wanders on further and further. In the 
third and fourth parts are described the king and 
the principal personages of his court. "Here, as in 
the earlier portions of the volume, Mr. Farmer has 
enriched his descriptions with long passages from 
Saint Simon or from other writers of memoirs. 
The translations of Saint Simon are so well chosen 
that for the ordinary reader they will serve the 
double purpose of informing him about Louis XIV, 



and of showing this incomparable writer to the best 
advantage, — that is to say, at Versailles, among 
the persons he commented upon with such delight- 
ful though occasionally damaging frankness. Prob- 
ably the most striking part of the whole picture is 
the mechanism of court life and the wonderful eti- 
quette which made it run smoothly. Altogether, 
this is an entertaining and instructive book, although 
devoid of pretension to profound interpretations of 
the Age of Louis XIV. 

Ripe and mellow are the chapters 
AZZiZtT «f M^- J««l S^^^ton's "Persons and 

Places," issued in a small illustrated 
volume by the Broadway Publishing Co. His 
reminiscences are chiefly of the Augustan age of 
American literature. Concord and a few of the 
Concord writers receive most prominent mention, 
and it is plain that the hermit of Walden is a prime 
favorite of his. One is much surprised to learn that, 
with all his admiration for Emerson, whom he early 
met in person, and for other New England celebrities, 
Mr. Benton had never until two years ago set foot 
in eastern Massachusetts. Besides memories of a 
talk with Emerson, whom the author as a youth 
drove thirty miles to hear lecture, the book gives 
recollections of Horace Greeley, Matthew Arnold, 
C. N. Bovee, and P. T. Barnum, and also chapters 
on Thoreau, Bryant, and " Some American Hu- 
morists " of half a century ago. Bostonians will be 
pleased with the compliment paid to Boston man- 
ners, on the street and in the street cars. The 
critical essay on Bryant's poetry animadverts gently 
on the predominant " sepulchral " element therein ; 
but in calling Bryant's style "ponderous " the author 
has perhaps not chosen the best word. Serious, 
often solemn, and even mortuary, it certainly is, but 
too exquisitely finished and musical -to be exactly 
ponderous. A couplet from Tennyson's " Vision of 
Sin " is given as " Every minute dies a man, every 
minute one is born," which the essayist incidentally 
calls "an extreme understatement of the actual fact." 
The true reading, with " moment " for " minute," is 
not open to this criticism. Writing largely of things 
a part of which he was and nearly all of which he 
saw, Mr. Benton can by no means be accused of 
producing merely the echo of an echo. 

.,, . Amonjj the eminent lawyers who 

Addresses from . ° , ^ ^p 

a lawyer's during the past half-century have 

busy life. honored the bar of New York City 

by their sterling character and public spirit, few 
have deserved greater respect than the late Frederic 
Ren^ Coudert, a volume of whose addresses have just 
been offered to the public by the Messrs. Putnam's 
Sons. Mr. Coudert's way was to do the duty before 
him, and this did not bring it in his scope to lay the 
foundations for a place in literature that would last 
after his work in the flesh was done. His addresses 
were only occasional incidents in a very busy and 
very useful life, — twenty-one in number dm'ing a 
period of over a quarter of a century ; and five of 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



51 



these were delivered in a single year, 1873, in a 
course before the Catholic Union. We could wisli, 
then, that the introductory note, signed P. F. ( Paul 
Fuller, we presume) had been expanded into some- 
thing like an adequate biography. Mr. Coudert 
was a man of broad and deep ciUture, thoroughly 
acquainted with the literatm'e of France, Spain, and 
Germany, and possessing a lucid, graceful, and effec- 
tive English style. It will be remembered that he 
was employed as counsel for the United States in the 
Belu'ing Sea Arbitration, and also in the Venezuela 
Boundary controversy. He was honored, too, with 
the offer of a position on the bench of the Supreme 
Court, but declined the honor. One finds in his 
addresses constant evidence of his charming per- 
sonality, of which we are told in the introductory 
note, '' His was indeed a blithesome spii'it, ever 
hovering a little above the dulness of our common 
traffic ; a kindly heart, ever a little aloof from the 
bitterness of daily strife, \newing the failings of his 
fellows through the softening haze of an enduring 
sympathy." 

A ivrist of ^^ ^ Marvell, the conscientious and 

the Enaiish assiduous member for Hull, rather 

Commonwealth. ^^^^ ^\^^ p^gt of the Commonwealth, 

of whom we think after reading Mr. Birrell's 
life of that woi-thy in the '"English Men of Let- 
ters" series (Macmillan). Letters are quoted at 
length, written by this faithful representative to 
his constituents, and very little is said of the poetry 
upon which his reputation rests. It is not as if his 
literary work were the du-ect outcome of his politi- 
cal, for his lyrics, his best work, were written before 
he entered the Commons. It is only with reference 
to his satires that his political work is important ; 
but in this book Marvell's politics are treated as of 
gi'eater import than his poetry. Some rather gen- 
eral criticism is given in the opening and closing 
chapters, and the reader is then referred to the ex- 
cellent and cheap edition in '"The Muses' Library" 
for the poems themselves ; but no serious apprecia- 
tion is attempted, either in relation to Marvell's work 
considered absolutely or with reference to his con- 
temporaries. It woiUd have been worth while to 
treat MarveU with one eye upon the fantastic fol- 
lowers of Donne and the other upon the pure lyr- 
ists of the period. In other words, we should have 
been very glad to have Mr. Birrell's views on the 
poetry of MarveU, even if they were merely jier- 
sonal. The series to which the volume belongs is as 
much critical as biographical, and Marvell is known 
to us to-dav more as a lyrist than as the Member 

for Hull. " 

Miss Agnes Repplier has departed 
in a convent from her accustomed field of essay- 
writing long enough to produce a 
book of charming autobiographical tales, called " In 
our Convent Days" (Houghton, Mifflin & Co.). It 
is needless to say that these tales, slight as they are 
in form and matter, woiUd hardly have succeeded 
in making Miss Repplier 's name mean what it does 



in American literatm-e if they had come earlier in 
her career. But, Miss Repplier being known as she 
is, and for what she is, the stories of " Marriage 
Vows," "The Game of Love," "In Reti-eat," and 
" Reverend Mother's Feast," suggesting some of the 
early influences which have led to the creation of 
some of our best essays, are of a peculiar and per- 
sonal interest. From their subject, they invite com- 
parison with Miss Elizabeth Jordan's "Tales of a 
Convent"; but MLss Jordan's stories are more gen- 
erally himian, and better stories, ^er se, — although 
there is no one of them superior in poetic charm to 
the accoimt of the Archbishop's visit as described in 
"Un Congfe sans Cloche." '* In Our Convent Days " 
gains in interest from the fact that besides the real 
Agnes the book contains the experiences of a real 
Elizabeth, now well known as Mrs. Elizabeth Robins 

Pennell. 

A„ A^^i^^^ Among the early volumes of a new 

An American • • i i -i » • r^ • • 

admiral of series entitled the "American Crisis 

the Civil War. Biographies " ( Philadelphia : Jacobs 
& Co.), we find a life of Admiral Farragut, writ- 
ten by Mr. John R. Spears. This series of war- 
hero biographies is announced as impartial because 
Southern subjects have been assigned to Southern 
writers and Northern subjects to Northern writers. 
A life of Farragut is scarcely a fair test of this sup- 
* posed preventive against sectional bias ; but it gives 
the author opportunity to describe the services of the 
distinguished American admiral in a fair and ra- 
tional manner. Facts, well authenticated, occupy the 
space that is usually given to mere eulogy in small 
biographies. Equally praiseworthy is the avoidance 
of discussion of naval controversies. Farragut's ac- 
tion in taking possession of New Orleans by force, 
his futile expedition up the Mississippi, and the 
dramatic passing of the forts on Mobile Bay, are 
described without attempts at criticism or justifica- 
tion. Numerous maps and plans of battles illustrate 
the text. The author contributes, as he says, one 
unknown chapter to history, in that upon the war 
upon the West India pirates between 1819 and 1823. 
He finds that these pirate ships, which have been 
supposed to be French, were in reality predatory 
vessels fitted out in the United States and England 
to prey upon Spanish commerce under the flags of 
Spanish-American insurgents. In its entirety, this 
biogi-aphy of four hundred pages may be classed 
among the best books of its kind. 

Entertaining ^^® ^^^- ^' J* Dawson is the author 
chapters on of a remarkably readable and intel- 

yreatnoveiitts. ligg^t account of "The Makers of 
English Fiction," published by the Fleming H. 
ReveU Co. In a series of twenty chapters he dis- 
cusses the chief English novelists, from Defoe to 
Stevenson, adding a few remarks upon American 
novelists, a brief essay on *' Religion in Fiction," 
and a concluding survey of the whole subject. 
The discussion is trenchant, the style pithy, and 
the judgment pronounced is usually temperate and 
sound. An occasional statement may strike us as 



52 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 16, 



a rhetorical exaggeration, but in the main the criti- 
cism is intelligent and compact. The book is quite 
as much a history of English fiction (with certain 
lacunae ) as it is a series of studies of individual writers, 
for the author is careful to indicate connecting links, 
and to follow the development of tendencies. The 
discussion does substantial justice to such authors 
as George Eliot and Mr. Thomas Hardy, which is a 
pretty fair test of the balance of a critic of Mr. 
Dawson's profession. We like particularly well the 
chapters on Kingsley, Reade, and Mr. Meredith, 
and wish that we might also have had a chapter on 
Bulwer, who is certainly deserving of one. 

Illustrations ^^^^ers of the ComMie humaine wiU 
of the methods find in Mr. Helm's '' Aspects of Bal- 
0/ Balzac. ^ac " (James Pott & Co.) the occasion 

for recalling pleasantly many of the figures that ani- 
mate its pages. The grouping of the familiar per- 
sons and events in new combinations cannot fail to 
suggest some interesting reflections. Mr. Helm has 
evidently had long and intimate acquaintance with 
Balzac's people, and when general questions touch- 
ing the great novelist's work and art present them- 
selves to him, his memory provides him at once 
with a series of pertinent illustrations. Mr. Helm's 
method furnishes us with a number of unpretentious 
chats, that commend themselves by intelligence and* 
discrimination, and move in the middle region of 
appreciation between fanatical zeal and grudging 
recognition. 



BRIEFER MENTION. 



Wouderfid doings with soap-bubbles, tops, and kites 
are described by Mr. Meredith Nugent in his " New 
Games and Amusements," published by Messrs. Double- 
day, Page & Co. If a boy could really do all these 
things by following the directions given, he might pose 
as a veritable wizard among his fellows. But our own 
boyish recollections prompt us to anticipate for him a 
fair proportion of failures. However, the book is dis- 
tinctly novel in the suggestions offered, and is thus a 
pleasuig departure from its type, for most books of this 
sort are a rehash of their predecessors, and are filled 
with the time-worn tricks that a modern boy would 
scorn to occupy his time with. 

Mr. Francis W. Halsey has done a real service to lit- 
erature in reprinting the first American edition (1794) 
of "Charlotte Temple: A Tale of Truth," by Mrs. 
Susanna Haswell Rowson. This moving tale of senti- 
ment has probably had more readers than any other 
work of fiction ever printed in this comitry ; it is still 
reprinted in cheap form, and the editor has collected 
over a hundred editions. This constant reprinting has 
resulted in a corruption of the text so great that Mr. 
Halsey has found, by actual count, 1265 errors in the 
best current edition. The work belongs to American 
literature, both because its scene is laid in this country, 
and because the author lived in Massachusetts for eight 
years of her early life, and then, retiu-ning later, was 
an actress and a teacher for her last thirty years or 
more. Mr. Halsey has given liis edition a very thorougli 
equipment of historical aud bibliographical matter. 



Notes. 

A new biography of Walt Wliitman, written by an 
Englishman, Mr. Henry Bryan Binns, will be published 
shortly by Messrs. E. P. Dutton & Co. 

Mr. J. Churton CoUins's » Studies m Poetry and 
Criticism," one of the most important critical works of 
the season, will be published at an early date by the 
Macmillan Co. 

In a recent number of " Tlie Sphere," Mr. Richard 
Whiteing has an interesting personal account of the 
late William Sharp, in which he sets at rest all doubts 
concerning Sharp's identity with the much-discussed 
" Fiona Macleod." 

Three notable books of biography to be published by 
Messrs. Harper & Brothers during the present year are 
the Memoirs of Sir Henry Irving, the Autobiography 
of General Lew Wallace, and a volume of Recollections 
of George du Maimer. 

Henry Harland, the autlior of a mnnber of popidar 
novels, died last month in Italy, at the age of forty- 
four. He was born in St. Petersburg, educated in 
America and Italy, and domiciled for the most part in 
England. Several of his earlier stories appeared under 
the pseudonym of " Sidney Luska." 

It is proposed to publish a volume containing a selec- 
tion from the letters of Jolm Brown, author of " Rab 
and his Friends." The editor will be obliged if friends 
who have letters from Dr. Brown will give him an 
opportvmity of reading them in order to judge of their 
siutability for inclusion in the proposed volume. All 
communications should be addressed to the writer's 
son, Mr. John Brown, 7 Greenhill Place, Eduiburgh. 

A new novel by Henryk Sienkiewicz, his first book of 
consequence since the year 1900, will be published this 
month by Messrs. Little, Brown, & Co. " On the Field 
of Glory " is its title, and the scenes are laid in Poland 
just before the Turkish invasion of 1682-3. As usual, 
Mr. Jeremiah Curtin is the translator. Two other nov- 
els to be issued during the month by the same firm are 
Mr. E. Phillips Oppenheim's " A Maker of History " 
and A. B. Ward's » The Sage Brush Parson." 

" Hawaiian Yesterdays " is the title of an illustrated 
volume amioimced for Spring publication by Messrs. 
A. C. McClurg & Co. The author is Dr. Henry M. 
Lyman, a distmguished surgeon of Chicago, whose 
father, David B. Lyman, was a well-known missionary 
in the Hawaiian Islands in the early half of the past 
centiu-y. Tlie book is a straightforward account of 
what a boy saw of life there in those early days, and 
prominent personages he came in contact with. 

The following are the latest French and German texts 
for school use: Messrs. Henry Holt & Co. publish 
Goethe's " Iphigenie auf Tauris," edited by Dr. Max 
Winkler; Hebbel's " Herodes und Mariamne," edited by 
Dr. Edward Stockton Meyer ; Herr Sudermami's 
"Teja," edited by Mr. Herbert C. Sanborn; aud Herr 
Heyse's " Die Blinden," edited by Professors W. H. 
Carruth and E. F. Engel. Messrs. D. C. Heath & Co. 
publish a volume of " Deutsclie Reden," mostly political 
in theme, edited by Dr. Rudolf Tombo and his son. 
From the Messrs. Holt we have also " A French Read- 
er," edited by Dr. A. Rambeau; and " Les Oberle," 
by M. Rend Bazin, edited by Mr. Charles W. Cabeen. 
Mr. William R. Jenkins publishes " Choses de France," 
a book for reading and conversation, by M. C. Fontaine; 
and " Historiettes et Poesies Choisies pour les Eufants," 
by Mile. Marie M. Robique. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



53 



The recent award of the Nobel prize of 840,000 to 
the Baroness Bertha von Suttner for her famous peace 
novel, " Die WafFen Nieder," has so renewed popidar 
interest in the book that Messrs. McClurg & Co. will 
publish at once a new edition of their English transla- 
tion, bearing the title "Ground Arms!" The great 
lesson taught by this impressive argument against war 
was never more pertinent than now, and it is to be 
hoped that in its new form the book will find the widest 
American audience. 

Messrs. Morang & Co., of Toronto, send us the 
" Speeches and Addresses, Political, Literary, and Re- 
ligious," of the Hon. John Charlton, for thirty-two 
years a member of the Canadian Parliament. They 
represent the public utterances of a man whose life has 
been a part of the history of Canada, and, in a lesser 
degree, of the history of the United States. Bom an 
American, Mr. Charlton crossed the boundary many 
years ago, and has ever since been an element for good 
in the political life of his adopted country. In Parlia- 
ment, his influence has been chiefly felt in two direc- 
tions, — the promotion of better trade relations with the 
United States, and the preservation of the sanctity of 
the Sabbath. The speeches he has preserved here suf- 
ficiently show the breadth of his interests, as well as of 
his point of view. His literary addresses are mainly 
American in theme: Abraham Lincoln, George Wash- 
ington, David Livingstone, American Humor, and Con- 
ditions of Success in Life. 



WILLIAM BAIN'ET HAKPEB. 

The death of President Harper, of the University of 
Chicago, on the tenth of this month, came too late to 
permit of our giving it the attention which would natur- 
ally be called for by the scholarly accomplishments and 
the public services of the g^reat educator. Under the 
circumstances, a few brief remarks must take the place 
of the more extensive treatment that we would gladly 
have accorded to his distinguished career. 

The work of organization done by President Harper 
during the comparatively brief period of his official life 
is too patent to need any comment. He created a great 
imiversity system, in some respects the most compre- 
hensive in the entire country, kept it in working order, 
provided for its progressive development as the means 
became available, and left it as the lasting monument 
of his tireless energy and his arduous devotion to its 
cause. His personality inspired the confidence which 
placed large sums of money at his command, sums 
which were not solicited by him, as he frequently took 
pains to declare, but which were offered freely by 
friends of the institution. The principal, although by 
no means the only, source of this support was of such a 
nature as to expose both the institution and its executive 
head to a great deal of Ul-mannered criticism from the 
public press, and the burden thus unjustly laid upon 
President Harper's shoulders was heavier than most 
people realized. That he bore it patiently and uncom- 
plainingly, even when it far exceeded the bounds per- 
missible in legitimate discussion, offers one of the finest 
illustrations of his eharacter. 

Another illustration is offered by the cordial relations 
which he maintained with his colleagues. Given a 
giant's power by the confidence of his board of trustees, 
he knew how tyrannous it woidd be to use that power 
like a giant, and thus saved a situation which, as may be 
seen in the example of certain other institutions and 
executives, might easily have become critical. The 



conditions of his office made him the embodiment of that 
one-man power which is to-day the chief menace of our 
university life, but pride and arrogant self-seeking were 
so alien to his nature that he did not exercise the power 
in an offensive way. He never took the attitude of a 
superior being, but deferred readily to the opinions of 
his colleagues, and did not think of embarking upon any 
important new policy without first gaining the support 
of the faculty. His example in this respect might pro- 
fitably be imitated in other quarters. 

Besides the adverse criticisms already alluded to, 
attacks of another kind were constantly made upon him, 
and were met with the same admirable equanimity. The 
dreadful mistake of gi^-ing to the University, by means 
of its charter, a sectarian label, was so minimized in its 
consequences by the President's broadness of view as to 
bring no practical impairment to the efficiency of the 
institution. Yet for this he suffered a persistent on- 
slaught from the sectarian bigotry which thought it 
intolerable that freedom of opinion should characterize 
the life of a school thus designated by a" theological 
trade-mark. But no fact is more evident to those who 
have known the University intimately than that it has 
always stood unswervingly in letter and in spirit for the 
highest ideal of academic freedom. No theological test 
was ever applied to teacher or student ; no disability was 
ever laid upon either by reason of private opinion or 
public utterance. 

It would not be proper to close even so brief a char- 
acterization as the present without saying a word about 
President Harper's last year. During that year he was 
under sentence of death, and almost constantly the 
victim of severe physical suffering. Yet this condition, 
which would have disheartened most men, and weak- 
ened the spirit of their labors, served only to arouse 
him to a renewed determination to accomplish all that 
might humanly be accomplished before the light failed. 
He continued tranquilly at his appointed tasks, and 
illustrated throughout his remaining days the truth of 
Spinoza's noble saying: " Homo liber de nulla re minus 
quam de morte cogitat." He thus vindicated the free- 
dom of his own spirit as he had before championed the 
spirit of academic freedom. Few men have been so 
tried, and far fewer have so well borne the test. It is 
safe to say that whoever watched his brave struggle 
with the ancient enemy of mankind came to feel, what- 
ever had been felt before, a redoubled admiration for 
the qualities of essential manhood that were then for 
the first time fullv revealed. 



L.IST OF Xeav Books. 



[The following list, containing 50 titles, includes books 
received by Tee Dial since its last issue.] 

BIOGBAPHT AKD ICEICOIBS. 
The Life of Froude. By Herbert Paxil. With photorravure 

portrait. 8vo, gilt top. pp. 454. Charles Scribner's Sons. 

$*■ net. 
Lioois XTV. and La Grande Mademoiselle. 1^2-1693. By 

Arvede Barine. Authorized English version. Illns.. 8vo, 

gilt top, pp. 3&1. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $3. net. 

William T. Sherman. By Edward Robins. With portrait. 
12mo, gilt top. pp. 352. "American Crisis Biographies." 
George W. Jacobs & Co. $1.25 net. 

HISTORY. 
The Journeys of LaSalle and his Companions, 1668-1687. 
As related by himself and his followers. Edited by Isaac 
Joslin Cox. Ph.D. In 2 vols., illus.. 16mo. "The Trail- 
Makers." A. S. Barnes & Co. 12. net. 



54 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 16, 



Nation Builders. By Edfrar Mayhew Bacon and Andrew 
Carpenter Wheeler. 12mo, pp. 196. Eaton & Mains. $1. 

GENERAL LITERATURE. 
7oungr Germany. By George Brandes. Large 8vo, gilt top, 

uncut, pp. 411. "Main Currents in Nineteenth Century 

Literature." Macmillan Co. 
Wordsworth's Idterary Criticism. Edited by Nowell C. 

Smith. 16mo, gilt top, pp. 260. Oxford University Press. 

90 eta. net. 
Poems and Extracts chosen by William Wordsworth for an 

Album Presented to Lady Mary Lowther, Christmas, 1819. 

With portrait, 16mo, gilt top, pp. 106. Oxford University 

Press. 90 cts. net. 
The Place of Hagic In the Intellectual History of Eu- 
rope. By Lynn Thomdike, Ph.D. Large 8vo, uncut, pp. 110. 

Columbia University Press. Paper. 
Children's Letters. Collected by Elizabeth Colson and Anna 

Gansevoort Chittenden. 12mo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 151. 

Hinds, Noble & Eldredge. $1. 

NEW EDITIONS OF STANDARD LITERATURE. 

Lives of the Engrlish Poets. By Samuel Johnson, LL.D. ; 
edited by. George Birkbeck Hill, D.C.L. ; with brief memoir 
of Dr. Birkbeck HUl by his nephew, Harold Spencer Scott, 
M.A. In 3 vols., large 8vo, gilt tops, uncut. Oxford Univer- 
sity Press. $10.50 net. 

The Poetical Works of William Blake. Edited by John 
Sampson. With facsimiles, 8vo, uncut, pp. 384. Oxford Uni- 
versity Press. $3.50 net. 

Letters of Horace Walpole, Fourth Earl of Orford. Edited 
by Mrs. Paget Toynbee. Vol XVI., Tables and Indices. 
12mo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 374. Oxford University Press. 

Letters and Addresses of Thomas Jefferson. Edited by 
William B. Parker and Jonas Viles. 12mo, pp. 323. New 
York : Unit Book Publishing Co. 56 cts. net. 

The Lyrical Poems of William Blake. Text by John 
Sampson; introduction by Walter Raleigh. With fron- 
tispiece, 16mo, gilt top, pp. 169. Oxford University Press. 
90 cts. net. 

Hilton's Ode on the Morning- of Christ's Nativity. With 
introduction by Glen Levin Swiggett. 16mo, uncut, pp. 32. 
The University Press of Sewanee, Tenn. $2. 

Longrfellow's Evangeline. Edited by Ernst Sieper. 8vo, 
uncut, pp. 177. "Englische Textbibliothek." Heidelberg: 
Carl Winter's Universitatsbuchhandlung. Paper. 

BOOKS OF VERSE. 
Songs in a Sun-Garden. By Coletta Ryan. 12mo, gilt top, 

uncut, pp. 101. Herbert B. Turner & Co. $1. 
The Book of the Singing Winds. By Sara Hamilton 

Birchall. 24mo, uncut, pp. 46. Boston: Alfred Bartlett. 

Paper. 
Smile and Sing, and Other Verses. By Annie Marie Bliss. 

12mo, pp. 27. A. M. Bliss Publishing Co. 50 cts. 

FICTION. 
The Storm Signal. By Gustave Frederick Mertins. Illus., 

12mo, pp. 425. Bobbs-Merrill Co. $1.50. 
Mr. Scraggs. By Henry Wallace Phillips. Hlus., 12mo, uncut, 

pp. 188. Grafton Press. $1.25. 

RELIGION AND THEOLOGY. 

The Relations of Faith and Life. By Rt. Rev. A. C. A. 

Hall, D.D. 12rao, pp. 89. Longmans, Green & Co. $1. net. 
The Failure of the " Higher Criticism " of the Bible. 

By Emil Reich. 8vo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 203. Jennings & 

Graham. $1. net. 
Half Century Messages to Pastors and People. By D. W. C. 

Huntington, D.D. 16mo, pp. 213. Jennings & Graham. $1. 
Christianity in Modem Japan. By Ernest W. Clement. 

Illus., 12mo, pp. 205. American Baptist Publication Society. 
Teachers' Guide to the International Sunday School Lessons 

for 1906. By Martha Tarbell, Ph.D. Illus., large 8vo, pp. 637. 

Bobbs-Merrill Co. 
Studies in the Old Testament. By Charles Herbert Morgan 

and Thomas Eddy Taylor. 8vo, pp. 217. Jennings & Graham. 

75 cts. 
The Life of Christ. By the Very Rev. Alexander Stewart. D.D. 

With frontispiece, 24mo, pp. 124. J. B. Lippincott Co. 

35 cts. net. 



The Missionary Interpretation of History. By Richard T. 
Stevenson, Ph.D. 16mo, pp. 105. Jennings & Graham. 

35 cts. net. 
The Methodist Year Book, 1906. Edited by Stephen V. R. 
Ford. Illus., 12nio, pp. 216. Eaton & Mains. Paper, 25 cts. net. 

NATURE. 
Animal Snapshots, and How Made. By Silas A. Lottridge. 

12mo, pp. 338. Henry Holt & Co. $1.75 net. 
The Prairie and the Sea. By William A. Quayle. Illus., 

large 8vo, gilt top. pp. 343. Jennings & Graham. $2. net. 
Ferns, and How to Grow Them. By G. A. Woolson. Illus., 

12mo, pp. 156. " The Garden Library." Doubleday, Page & 

Co. $l.net. 

EDUCATION. 

National Educational Association: Journal of Proceedings 
and Addresses of the Forty-Fourth Annual Meeting, 1905. 
8vo, pp. 968. Published by the Association. 

National Educational Association. Reports of the Com- 
mittees on Salaries, Tenure, and Pensions, on Industrial 
Education in Schools for Rural Communities, and on Tax- 
ation as Related to Public Education. Each 8vo. Published 
by the Association. Paper. 

Great Pedagogical Essays: Plato to Spencer. Edited by 
F. V. N. Painter, A.M. 12mo, pp. 426. American Book Co. 
$1.25. 

Caesar's Gallic and Civil Wars. Edited by Maurice W. 
Mather. Ph.D. 12mo, pp. 549. American Book Co. $1.25. 

Thackeray's Henry Esmond. Edited by Hamilton Byron 
Moore. With portrait, 16mo, pp. 586. Ginn & Co. 60 cts. 

First Year in Algebra. By Frederick H. Somerville. 12mo, 
pp. 208. American Book Co. 60 cts. 

Elementary Physical Science, for Grammar Schools. By 
John F. Woodhull, Ph.D. Illus., 12mo, pp. 109. American 
Book Co. 40 cts. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 
The Constitutional Decisions of John Marshall. Edited 

by Joseph P. Cotton. Jr. In 2 vols., with photogravure 

portraits, large 8vo, gUt tops, uncut. G. P. Putnam's Sons. 

$10. net. 
The Dissociation of a Personality: A Biographical Study 

in Abnormal Psychology. By Morton Prince, M.D. 8vo, 

pp. 569. Longmans, Green & Co. $2.80 net. 
King Leopold II.: His Rule in Belgium and the Congo. By 

John de Courcy MacDonnell. Illus., large 8vo, gilt top, 

pp. 391. Cassell & Co. $6.25 net. 
A Decade of Civic Development. By Charles Zueblin. 

Illus., 12mo, pp. 188. University of Chicago Press. $1.25 net. 
Centralization and the Law: Scientific Legal Education, 

an Illustration. With introduction by Melville M. Bigelow. 

12mo, pp. 2%. Little, Brown & Co. $1.50 net. 
Inaugural Addresses of the Presidents of the United States, 

from Johnson to Roosevelt. Edited by John Vance Cheney. 

With photogravure portrait, 16mo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 125. 

Chicago : The Lakeside Press. 
Studies in Moro History, Law, and Religion. By Nageeb 

M. Saleeby. Illus., large 8vo, pp. 107. Manila: Bureau of 

Public Printing. Paper. 
War Inconsistent with the Religion of Jesus Christ. 

By David Low Dodge; introduction by Edwin D. Mead. 

With portrait, 12mo, pp. 168. Ginn & Co. 50 cts. net. 



ROOICS ^^^ OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS SUPPLIED, 

*-*^^y^i-^*J' no matter on what subject. Write us. We can get 
you any book ever published. Please state wants. Catalogue free. 
BAKERS GREAT BOOK-SHOP, 14-16 Bright St., Bieminoham, E»o. 



PUBLIC AND PRIVATE LIBRARIES 

A trained librarian with wide experience and highest imiversity and 
library references is open to engagements for Bibliographical work, 
investigating, indexing, organizing, cataloguing, and classifying. 
Address for terms, MARY E. COMBS, 736 E. Fullerton Ave., Chicago. 

STORY-WRITERS, Biographers. Historiaas, Poets — Do 

— — — — ^^^-^-^^ you desire the honest criticism of your 
book, or its skilled revision and correction, or advice as to publication ? 
Such work, said George William Curtis, is " done as it should be by The 
Easy Chair's friend and fellow laborer in letters. Dr. Titus M. Coan." 
Terms by agreement. Send for circular D, or forward your book or MS. 
to the New York Bureau of Revision, 70 Fifth Ave., New York. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



56 



William R. Jenkins 

851 & 853 Sixth Ave. (cor. 48th St.), N. Y. 
Ab Branch Store* 
Choice 



French 

Calendars 

for 1906 

With daily quotations from 
the best French authors at 
prices— 40c., 50c., 60c., 75c., 
$1.00, $1.25, and $1.50, each, 
postpaid. 



A List of 

French Books 

suitable for Holiday Gifts will be 
sent free when requested ; also 
complete catalogues of all French 
Boolu if desired. 



Ihe STUDEBAKER 

Stint Sitifi TBuilnins 

Miehigan Boalevard, between Congress and 
Van Buren Streets, Chicago. 



THE HURST IMPRINT 

on a book denotes the best value for the least outlay. 

Holiday Catalogue of Popular and Standard Publications 

now ready. 

8ByT TO ANTOSE UPON REQUEST 

HURST & CO. Pubiishers NEW YORK 

STUDY AND PRACTICE OF FRENCH in 4 Parts 

L. C. BoHua, Author and Pub., 1930 Chestnut St., Philadelphia, Pa. 

Well-graded series for Preparatory Schools and Colleges. No time 
wasted in superficial or mechanical work. Frtneh Text : Kumerooa 
exercises in conversation, translation, composition. Part I. (60 eta.): 
Primary grade; thorough driU in Pronunciation. Part II. (90 eta.): 
Intermediate grade ; Essentials of Grammar ; 4th edition, revised, wiUi 
Vocabulary : most carefully graded. Part III. ($1.00): Composition, 
Idioms, Syntax ; meets requirements for admission to college. 

Part IV. (36 eta.): Handbook of Pronuneiation for advanced grade; 
concise and comprehensive. Sent to teachertfor examincUion, with » 
vime to introduction. 



HENKY W. SAVAGE OFFERS 

THE PRINCE OF PILSEN 

WITH 

JESS DANDY 



THE COMPLETE WRITINGS OF 

ALFRED DE MUSSET 

Illustrated, large paper edition, in 
Ten Volumes. 
"A writer who has endowed oar language with admirable 
poetry, the brother of Lamartine, of Hugo, and of Byron, a 
norelist rivaling Prevost, Balzac, and George Sand; a dramatist 
who, in one act, has made the Comedie Fran^aise earn more 
money than we give it in six months ; one of those thinkers 
who has never once sacrificed the dignity of art to the ambitions 
of fortune and position." ALEXANDRE DUICAS. 

BOOKLET MAILED OS APPLICATION 

EDWIN C. HILL COMPANY 

160 FIFTH AVENUE NEW YORK CITY 




56 



THE DIAL 



[Jan. 16, 1906. 



The Nordfeldt Prints 

C Designed and cut on the wood by B. J. Olsson-Nordfeldt and printed by him after the 
Japanese method, in water colors. Recognized here and abroad as an art item of unique and 
extraordinary interest. A few of the prints heretofore produced by Mr. Nordfeldt may still be 
had at from $8.oo to $io.oo each. A selection of these will be sent to responsible persons 
on approval. 

SPECIAL 

C Mr. Nordfeldt will produce twelve sets of blocks in 1906, the number of impressions from 
each set to be limited to 250, each to be numbered and signed — the blocks to be destroyed. 
They will be sold only by subscription and only in full sets of twelve, to be delivered by regis- 
tered post as issued — one each month. Not more than two sets allotted to any one person. 
C The price for the full set is $20. in January, increasing 10 per cent each month during the 
year. Thus the February price is $22., the March price $24., etc. Payable quarterly in ad'vance, 
C The January price in England is four guineas, February four and one-half guineas, March five 
guineas, etc., advancing half a guinea per month during the year. Payable quarterly in ad'vance. 
C Circular containing six half-tone reproductions, free upon application. Send subscriptions 
and remittances to 

THE PRINT SOCIETY 



JAMES HOWARD KEHLER, Director 



The Fine Arts Building, CHICAGO 



Hole-. — Examples may be seen and subscriptions arranged for in New York at the New Gallery, 
15 West Thirtieth Street. A collection of the Nordfeldt Prints is now being shown, 
by special invitation, at the annual exhibition of The International Society, London. 



THE BOOKS 
OF ALL PUBLISHERS 

are carried in our stock, 
which is larger and more 
general than that of any 
other house in the country. 

LIBRARY ORDERS 

given prompt and intelligent 
service. Our large stock 
and extensive library expe- 
rience enables us to give 
valuable aid and advice to 
libraries and librarians. 

CATALOGUE CARDS and 
CARD CABINETS 

We carry a special line and 
will be glad to furnish a 
price list. 

LIBRARY DEPARTMENT 

A. C. McCLURG & CO. 

CHICAGO 



RARE BOOKS 

We want the names of buyers of Americana, 
First Editions, and Standard Literature, 
throughout the Country. 

Catalogues sent upon request. Correspondence Solicited. 



Niel Morrow Ladd Book Co. 

644 FULTON STREET BROOKLYN, N. Y. 



30,000 Volumes 



LIBRARY SERVICE 

We aim to serve librarians with the greatest efficiency. 

WK HAVE 

(1) Competent and thoroughly equipped book men. 

(2) The largest miscellaneous book stock in New 

York City. 

(3) A valuable line of order lists, as follows : 

(A) Monthly Bulletin of tbe Latest and Best 

Selling Books. 

(B) Standard Library Catalogue. 

(C) Clearance Catalogues. 

DO YOU GET THESE ? SENT FREE 

THE BAKER & TAYLOR CO., wholesale Bookseller, 
33-37 East 17tb St., Union Sq., North. New York 



THE DIAL PRESS, FINE ABTS BDn.DIIia, CHICAGO 



Public Libriiry, 




THE DIAL 

Jl SEMI-MONTHLY JOURNAL OF 

yittrarg Crrtirism, gisrnssixm, antr Jirfornration. 

•■ 

Editbd BY \ Volume XL, PWTP A riTi T^VR 1 1 QAfi jo et«. o copy. / Fm^b Abts BiniJ)nrG 

FRANCIS F. BROWNE J JVb. 4:7. V>nJ.VyAVJV7, T Xi£>. J., xyuu. $s.avear. \ 208 B41chigan Blvd. 




LINCOLN: MASTER OF MEN 

By Aix)Nzo Rothschild 

A keen and brilliant stady. emphasizing the keynote of Lincoln's character — his mastery over different types of 
men as well as over himself. A book of sorprinng freahneM of interest. Wi& portraits. 

CATTLE BRANDS THE LOG OF A 

By AifDY Adams SEA ANGLER 

Fourteen cowboy stories, with a great variety of incident Probably no other book contains so much actual and 

and abundant action, by the author of " The Log of a exciting adventure with big game fishes among the 

Cowboy," " A Texas Matchmaker.'^ etc. $1^0. Florida Keys and in other American waters. 

INDIVIDUALITY AND IMMORTALITY 

By WmEUC Ostwal© 
In this latest Ingersoll Lecture, Professor Ostwald of Leipzig presents the views of the modem science of physical 
chemistry, as regards the future life. 75 cents, net. Postage extra. 

WHAT IS RELIGION THE SUBCONSCIOUS 

By HwfRY S. Pritchett By Joseph Jastbow 
Five vigorous, broad-minded addresses to college stu- 
dents by the President of the Massachusetts Imtitute -^ distinctive contribution to an interestii^ phase of 
of Technology. $1.00, net. Postage extra. descriptive psychology. 

NEXT MONTH'S NEW BOOKS 
THE MAYOR OF WARWICK 

By Herbert M. Hopkihs 

A brilliant novel of contemporary American life combining unusual plot interest and charm of detail. With 
frontispiece by Henry Hutt. $1-50. 

BIRD AND BOUGH JOHN LOTHROP MOTLEY 

By John Burroughs By Edward G. Bourne 

A book of out-door poems. In American Men of Letters series. 

A LITTLE SISTER OF DESTINY 

By GeLETT BtTRGESS 

The adv^itores of a rich and attractive New York girl who in disguise sees various phases of life in the great city 
with happy results to others and no little amusement to herself. 

READY IN MARCH 

THE EVASION, by EUGENIA BROOKS FROTHINGHAM 

The author of " The Turn of the Road." 



HOUGHTON, MIFFLIN & COMPANY, BOSTON AND NEW YORK 



58 THE DIAL [Feb. 1, 

SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT FOR LIBRARIANS 

Messrs. A. C. McCLVRG now have in preparation some important 
volumes of great interest to librarians under the following general title: 

LITERATURE OF LIBRARIES 

17TH AND 18TH CENTURIES 

This series will consist of translations of rare works on topics of interest 
to library workers. Edited by JOHN COTTON DANA, Librarian of the 
Newark Public Library. Six volumes in all will be published, beautifully 
printed at the Merrymount Press of Boston. The titles of the first two are: 

Vol. I. Concerning the Duties and Qualifications of a Librarian 
Vol. II. The Reformed Library Keeper 



Further particulars and circulars may be had upon application to 

A. C. McCLURG & CO. PUBLISHERS CHICAGO 



55 



The Book that Won the Nobel Peace Prize 

"GROUND ARMS! 

("Die Waffen Niederl") 

A ROMANCE OF EUROPEAN WAR 
By the BARONESS VON SUTTNER 

THE wide publicity given the Baroness von Suttner's " Die Waffen Nieder !" 
which won the Nobel Peace Prize for 1905 ($40,000), has made it necessary 
to bring out a re-issue of this admirable translation. 

"Ground Arms!" has been not unaptly called the "Uncle Tom's Cabin" of 
the peace propaganda. It is, like Mrs. Stowe's famous book, a work of fiction, 
in which the horrors and barbarities of modern warfare are brought out in a 
striking way, and is supposed to have exerted the greatest influence in bringing 
about The Hague Tribunal. " Ground Arms ! " has had an enormous circulation 
in Europe. 

New Edition, with Portrait of the Author, $1-25 

A. C. McCLURG & CO. PUBLISHERS CHICAGO 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



69 



VALUABLE BOOKS FOR LIBRARIES 



Recently Published 



HISTORIC ILLINOIS 

Thirty-one essays on the romance of the earlier days, 
presented in an unusually readable and absorbing man- 
ner, by Randall Parish, author of "When Wilder- 
ness Was King," etc. It is an interesting example of 
the novel-writer's skill when a|>plied to historical facts. 
With many illustrations from photographs. $2. 50 net. 



HOME LIFE IN FRANCE 

One might read a dozen histories and not get so real 
and intimate an acquaintance with the people as from a 
book like this. It is an interesting and delightful study 
of practical value, by Miss Betham-Edwards, OflBcier 
de r Instruction Publique. With 20 illustrations. 
$2.50 net. 

IN THE LAND OF THE 
STRENUOUS LIFE 

The Abbe Klein's famous book about the United 
States has been extremely successful in France and is 
now offered in an authorized English translation. With 
14 full-page illustrations. $2.00 net. 



LIFE OF 
OMAR AL-KHAYYAMI 

This life of the poet-astronomer is by a Persian 
scholar, J. K. M. Shirazi, and contains many interesting 
facts which are of great value to students of Omarian 
literature. $1.50 net. 

ARTS AND CRAFTS OF 
OLD JAPAN 

A condensed handbook in popular style, by Stewart 
Dick, for those who desire an introduction to the study 
of Japanese Painting, Color Prints, Sculpture and Carv- 
ing, Metal Work, Keramics, Lacquer, and Landscape 
Gardening. With many full-page illustrations. $1.20 net. 

WITH SHELLEY IN ITALY 

An important book, edited, with an introduction, by 
Anna Benneson McMahan (compiler of ''Florence 
in the Poetry of the Brownings"). The most inspired 
work of Shelley's life is presented with an accompani- 
ment of illustrations, passages from note books, and other 
invaluable references. With over sixty illustrations. 
Si. 40 net. 



In Preparation 



HAWAIIAN YESTERDAYS 

A delightfully written account of what a boy saw of 
life in the Islands in the early '30's. The author is 
the late Henry M. Lyman, a distinguished Chicago 
physician, whose father was a well-known missionary 
in Hawaii. His book is a most interesting account of 
early conditions in a part of the world in which Ameri- 
cans are becoming more and more interested. Illus- 
trated. $2.00 net. 



PANAMA TO PATAGONIA 

The Isthmian Canal and the West Coast 
Countries of South America 

The author, Charles M. Pepper, is a distinguished 
newspaper man who has travelled extensively, especially 
in the Latin-American republics, and who is a member 
of the Permanent Pan-American Railway Committee. 
His book aims to point out to the American com- 
mercial world the enormous advantages coming to this 
country from South America through the construction 
of the Panama Canal. With map and illustrations. 
$2.50 net. 

THE GLORY SEEKERS 

The Romance of Would-be Founders of Em- 
pire in the Early Days of the Southwest 

Romantic tales of the daring adventurers who became 
notorious as the leaders of filibustering expeditions into 
the region which now forms the State of Texas. The 
author, William Horace Brown, knows his subject 
and endeavors to present a truthful account, with the 
comment that "justice and patriotism were not always 
the prompters of their actions." Without considera- 
tion of the motives of these turbulent freebooters, there 
is no question but that their exploits were dramatic and 
picturesque, the narrative of which is not only instructive 
but makes highly entertaining reading. $1.50 net. 



FUTURE LIFE 

In Modern Science and Ancient Wisdom 

This is the authorized translation of the famous book 
by Louis Elbe which has been creating so wide a stir 
in scientific and religious circles throughout France, 
under the title "La Vie Future." It will be received 
with wide-spread interest here, and will arouse very 
general discussion. The subject is one which is engag- 
ing not only scientists, but laymen, in ever increasing 
numbers. This volume offers for the first time a com- 
plete presentation of all the available evidence hitherto 
to be found only in the most scattered and inaccessible 
forms. 



A. C. McCLURG & COMPANY, PUBLISHERS, CHICAGO 



60 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 1, 



** Have We a Huxley Among Us?" 

" The call goes up for a new Moses in the wilderness, a new Huxley who shall 
lead us out of darkness into light. But whither shall we turn?" says The 
New York Herald, August 6th, 1905, in a full-page review of 

The New Knowledge 

By ROBERT KENNEDY DUNCAN 

Sir William Ramsay and M. Becquerel pronounce it one of the great books of 
the day. It makes the mysteries of science plain. It fascinates like a wizard's 
tale. It brings the knowledge of the world up to date. 

Cloth, $2.00 net. By mail, $2.16. Fifth Edition. 



A Little History of 
Colonial Life 

(In two volumes) 
By GEORGE GARY EGGLESTON 

1. Our First Century 

2. Life in the 18th Century 

" Social features of Colonial life, its religion, 
its education, its superstitions and witchcrafts, 
its play, its work, its commercial and agricul- 
tural development. Mr. Eggleston's substan- 
tial achievement." — Chicago Evening Post. 

Each volume 12mo, $1.20 net. 



Lives of Great 
Writers 

By TUDOR JENKS 

In the Days of Chaucer 
In the Days of Shakespeare 
In the Days of Milton 
In the Days of Scott 

" As an open-minded student Mr. Jenks un- 
rolls a fascinating panorama." — The Outlook. 

Each volume 12mo, $1.00 net. 



A MOST IMPORTANT BOOK 



The Business of Life Insurance 

By MILES MENANDER DAWSON 

Cloth, 12mo, $1.50 net. Second Edition. 

" Practical, suggestive, and soundly informative, this book shotdd find a wide audience." 

— The Outlook. 
Catalogue on Application. 



A. S. BARNES & COMPANY PUBLISHERS NEW YORK 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



61 



•'The history of the world is the 
history of trails." — New York Sun. 



"Unnecessary to comment upon the value 
of these Source-Histories." — Chicago Post. 



THE TRAIL MAKERS 

A Library of History and Exploration. Professor JOHN BACH McMASTER, Consulting Editor. 

History told by the Makers of History 

"The appearance of ' The Trail-Makers ' in convenient form and at a moderate price seems to indi- 
cate the beginning of a new era in the treatment of history." — New York Times. 
" In these volumes are made accessible some of the most important sources of American history. 
To find them in compact form, priced at a low figure and containing the full text of the originals 
supplemented by inti-oductions and notes provided by careful editors, is truly in the nature of a 
welcome surprise." — Chicago Record-Herald. 

THE TRAIL-MAKERS 

Each volume small 12mo, cloth. With introductions, notes, Ulusti-ations, and maps. Ea<;h $1.00 net. 

(Special circulars on application. ) 

JUST PUBLISHED 

The Explorer of the Mississippi. 
The Journeys of La Salle and his Companions, 1678-1687. As related by himself and his 
followers. Edited, with an Introduction, by Professor I. J. Cox, of the University of Cincinnati. 
In two volumes. 



First Across the Continent. 
The Journey of Alvar Nunez Cabeza de 
Vaca, and liis companions from Florida to 
the Pacific, 1528-1536. 
Translated by Fanny Bandelier. Edited, 
with an Introduction, by Ad. F. Bandelier. 

The First Explorer of the South. 
Narratives of the Career of Hernando 
de Soto in the Conquest of Florida, 1539- 
1542, as told by a gentleman of Elvas, by 
Luys Hernandez De Biedma, and by Rod- 
rigo Ran j el. 

Edited, with an Introduction, by Professor 
Edward Gaylord Bourne, of Yale Univer- 
sity. In two volumes. 

The First Explorer of the West. 
The Journey of Coronado, 1540-42. From 
the City of Mexico to the Buffalo Plains of 
Kansas and Nebraska. 
Translated and Edited, with an Introduc- 
tion, by George Pai-ker Winship. 

A Founder of New France. 
Voyages and Explorations of Samuel de 
Champlain, narrated by himself. 
Translated by Annie Nettleton Bom-ne. 
Edited, with an Introduction, by Edward 
Graylord Bomuie, Professor of History in Yale 
University. In three volimies. ( In press. ) 



First Across British America. 
Voyages from Montreal through the Con- 
tinent of North America to the Frozen 
and Pacific Oceans in 1789 and 1793. 

By Alexander Mackenzie. In two volumes. 

Th^ Greatest American Exploration. 
History of the Expedition Under the 
Command of Capts. Lewis and Clark. 

With an Account of the Louisiana Pur- 
chase, by Professor John Bach McMaster, 
and an Introduction Identifying the Route. 
In three volumes. 

A Contemporary Life of the Iroqiwis. 
History of Five Indian Nations of Can-^ 
ada which are Dependent upon the 
Province of New York. 

By Cadwallader Golden, Siirveyor-General 
of the Colony of New York. In two volumes. 

An Early Fur Trader's Life. 
A Journal of Voyage and Travels in the 
Interior of North America. 

By Daniel Williams Harmon, a partner in 
the Northwest Company (beginning in 
1800). 

Across Suh-Arctic America. 
The Wild Northland. 

By Gen. Sir William Francis Butler, K.C.B. 



A. S. BARNES & COMPANY PUBLISHERS NEW YORK 



62 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 1, 



New and Important Lippincott Books 



MISCELLANEOUS 

BELLOC, H. 

The Old Road 

Illustrated. 8vo. Cloth .... $8.50 net 
BOMBAUQH, DR. C. C. 

Facts and Fancies for the Curious 

New Edition. 8vo. Cloth . . . $3.00 net 
DUCLAUX, MARY 

The Fields of France 

Illustrated. Quarto $6.00 net 

HEILPRIN, ANQELO 
HEILPRIN, LOUIS 

Lippincott's New Gazetteer 

Quarto. Sheep $10.00 net 

Half Russia $12.50 net 

Three-quarters Levant $15.00 net 

Patent Index, 50 cents extra. 

HUME, MARTIN 

Spanish Influence on English 
Literature 

12mo. Cloth $2.00 net 

LITTLE, MRS. ARCHIBALD 

Round About My Peking Garden 

Illustrated. 8vo. Cloth .... $5.00 net 

Saddle and Song 

Illustrated. 12mo. Cloth 
Three-quarter Levant . . 

STEARNS, FRANK P. 

Cambridge Sketches 

Illustrated. 12mo. Cloth 



. $1.50 net 
. $4.50 net 



. $1.50 net 
STEPHENS, KATE 

American Thumbprints 

12mo. Cloth $1.50 net 

THOMPSON, VANCE 

Diplomatic Mysteries 

Illustrated. 12mo. Cloth . 



FICTION 

BARBOUR, RALPH HENRY 

An Orchard Princess 

Illustrated. 12mo. Cloth . . 
BENSON, E. F. 

The Image in the Sand 

12mo. Cloth 



$1.50 net 



$2.00 



$1.50 



CARY, ROSA NOUCHETTE 

The Household of Peter 

12mo, Cloth $1.50 

DICKSON, HARRIS 

The Ravanels 

Illustrated. 12mo. Cloth .... $1.50 
LONG, JOHN LUTHER 

Miss Cherry- Blossom of Tokyo 

New Illustrated Edition. 12mo. Cloth. $2.50 
TYBOUT, ELLA MIDDLETON 

The Wife of the Secretary of State 

Illustrated. 12mo. Cloth .... $1.50 



HISTORY AND BIOGRAPHY 

BIQELOW, HON. JOHN 

The Life of Benjamin Franklin 

Fifth Edition. Revised. 

Illustrated. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Three vol- 
umes, in a hox $6.00 

CAP ART, JEAN 

Primitive Art in Egypt 

Illustrated. 8vo. Cloth .... $5.00 net 
DE WIT, AUGUSTA 

Facts and Fancies About Java 

Illustrated. Small Quarto . . . $3.75 net 
DOWDEN, EDWARD 

Michel de Montaigne 

Vol. 1. French Men of Letters 

Frontispiece portrait. 12mo. Cloth. $1.50 net 
JOUBERT, CARL 

Russia As It Really Is 

8vo. Cloth , . $2.00 net 

The Truth About the Tsar 

8vo. Cloth $2.00 net 

LANG, ANDREW 
Oxford 

Illustrated. 12mo. Cloth . . . $1.50 net 
STEVENSON, ROBERT LOUIS 
Edinburgh 

Illustrated. 16mo. Lambskin . . $1.00 net 
VAN RENSSELAER, MRS. J. K. 

Newport: Our Social Capital 

Illustrated. Quarto. Buckram . $30 00 net 
Full Levant $50.00 net 

WARD, H. SNOWDEN 

The Canterbury Pilgrimages 

Illustrated. 8vo. Cloth .... $1.75 net 
WARWICK, CHARLES F. 

Mirabeau and the French Revolution 
Illustrated. 8vo. Cloth .... $2.50 net 

SCIENTIFIC 

CAIN, J. C. 
THORPE, J. F. 

Synthetic Dyestuffs 

Illustrated. 8vo. Cloth .... $5.00 net 
HATTON, RICHARD G. 

Figure Composition 

Illustrated. 8vo. Cloth .... $2.75 net 
POWLES, H. H. P. 

Steam Boilers: Their History 
and Development 

Illustrated. Large 8vo. Cloth . . $6.50 net 
SMITH, ROBERT H. 

Commercial Economy in Steam 
and Other Thermal Power-Plants 

Illustrated. 8vo. Cloth .... $7 00 net 



J. B. LIPPINCOTT COMPANY 



PHILADELPHIA 



1906] THE DIAL 63 

AN ABSOLUTE NECESSITY 
FOR LIBRARIES 

LippiNCOTTS New Gazetteer 



New York Times.—" A Great Gazetteer." 

New York Sun. — "Up to date and invaluable." 

Bradstreefs.—" A great Geographical Dictionary." 

Boston Evening Transcript. — "A monumental work ... of almost incal- 
culable value." 

Public Opinion.— "This book is as essential to the library as the dic- 
tionary or the encyclopedia." 

Boston Daily Globe.—" Accurate, up to date, practical, it is an absolute 
necessity for libraries, schools, colleges, and institutions of every 
kind." 

Boston Herald. — " The Gazetteer is indispensable to the consulting library 
of everyone whose work deals with foreign or domestic affairs." 

The Outlook.— " For the Newspaper office, the library, and the increasing 
number of business men whose field is the world and who must 
have accurate information about it, LippincotVs Gazetteer in its 
new form will be as indispensable as is an unabridged dictionary." 



LIPPINCOTTS New Gazetteer 



J. B. LIPPINCOTT COMPANY :: PHILADELPHIA 



64 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 1, 



NELSON'S New Century Library 

IS BECOMING MORE POPULAR EVERY YEAR 

The works of the best authors have never been obtainable in a form so elegant. 
New style ^^| Large novels formerly requiring two bulky ^^^L oid style 

complete in ^^H volumes are issued in one handsome book, ^jjj^^^L '^^'* 

One Volume ^H not thicker than a monthly magazine and .^I^^^L Volumes 

of pocket size — 614x4^ inches, yet the 

size of the type is not reduced. 




Type same Size in 
Both 



WE HAVE JUST ADDED 




SHAKESPEARE'S WORKS 

Complete in Six Volumes. Bound in red cloth and red limp leather, gilt top and gilt back, with frontispiece. 
Without doubt the daintiest set of Shakespeare on the market. The type is long primer bold face. You have to 
examine these volumes to appreciate their merits. 

The new Century Library contains the complete works of 

DICKENS, THACKERAY, SCOTT 

and selected works of the best authors. The size is so convenient that you can hold them in the hand 
when reading and carry them in your pocket or satchel to read on the train, and a volume is so small and light 
that you never know it is there. 

Prices — $1.00, $1.25, $1.50 — according to the style of binding. 



New volumes are constantly being added. Complete catalogue sent on application to 

THOMAS NELSON & SONS, Publishers, 37 East 18th Street, New York 



A BRIEF LIST OF BOOKS 



PUBLISHED AND IMPORTED, 1905 



AUOUSTUS. The Life and Times of the Founder 
of the Roman Empire. By E. S. Shuckbubgh, 
Litt.D. Fully illustrated. Large 12mo, cloth, net $1.50. 

THE CAMERA IN THE FIELDS. A Practical 
Guide to Nature Photography. By F. C. Snell. 12mo, 
cloth, fully illustrated §1.25 

ETHIOPIA IN EXILE — JAMAICA REVISITED. 

By B. PuiiLEN-BuKBY, Author of " Jamaica As It Is." 
12mo, cloth $1.50 

MODEL FACTORIES AND VILLAGES. Ideal 
Conditions of Labor and Housing. By Budgett 

Meakik, Lecturer on Industrial Betterment. Author 
of "The Land of the Moors," etc. With about 200 
illustrations. Large crown 8vo, cloth . . . $1.90 

MY MEMORY OF GLADSTONE. By Goldwin 
Smith. 12mo, cloth, with portrait . . . net 75 cts. 



RE-ISSUES IN POPULAR EDITIONS. 
BARBIZON DAYS-Millet-Corot-Rousseau-Barye. 

By Chakles S. Smith. Sq.l2mo, cloth, fully illus., $2.00 
AUTHORS AT HOME. Personal and Biographical 
Sketches of well-known American Writers. Edited by 
J. L. and J. B. Gilder. 12mo, cloth, 5 portraits, net 50c. 
THE ETIQUETTE OF CORRESPONDENCE. By 
Helen E. Gavit. Being Illustrations and Suggestions 
as to the Proper Form in Present Usage of Social, Club, 
Diplomatic, Military, and Business Letters. Illustrated. 
12mo, cloth net 50 cts, 

JUVENILES. 

FAMOUS BATTLES OF THE NINETEENTH 
CENTURY. Vol. 4, 1875-1900. By G. A. Henty, 
Major Arthur Griffiths, Archibald Forbes, and 
other well-known writers. Edited by Charles Welsh. 
12rao, cloth, with ten illustrations $1.25 

THE WONDERFUL WISHES OF JACKY AND 
JEAN. By Mart A. Dickbbson. Six full-page illus- 
trations in color, by C. B. Falls. Quarto, cloth, $1.00 



SEND FOR OUR COMPLETE CATALOGUE 



A. WESSELS COMPANY, 43 E. Nineteenth Street, New York 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



66 



LITTLE, BROWN & COMPANY'S 

PUBLICATIONS FOR 1905 



MISCELLANEOUS 



8BA POWER IN ITS RELATIONS TO THE WAR OF 1812. By 
Captain A. T. Mabak. With photograrnre frontispieces, maps, 
battle plans, and twenty-three full-page plates in half-tone. 2 Tola. 
8vo, 87.00 net. 

THE TRUE STORY OF PAUL REVERE. By Chaklw F. Gamirr. 
With twelve full-page plates. 12nio, Sl-50 net. 

THE BROTHERS' WAR. By John C. R«d. 12mo, S2.00 net. 

THE INDIAN DISPOSSESSED. By Srre K. Humphekt. With six- 
teen full-page illustrations. 12mo, SI. 50 net. 

IN AND OUT OF THE OLD MISSIONS OF CALIFORNIA. An 
Historical and Pictorial Account of the Franciscan Missions. By 
Obobob Whartom Jamks. With 142 illustrations. 8to, $3.00 net. 

THE FLORENCE OF LANDOR. By Lilian Whitiso. With fifteen 
full-page pictures. 8vo, $2.50 net. 

TWO IN ITALY. By Maud Howb. With six full-page illostrmtions 
by John Elliott. Crown 8to, $2 00 net. 

IL LIBRO D'ORO of those whose names are written in the Lamb's 
Book of Life. Translated from the Italian by Mrs. Fbakcis Axex- 
ANDBB. Crown 8»o, S2.00 net. 

SELECT POEMS OF ROBERT BROWNING. Edited, with Intro- 
duction and Notes, etc., by A. J. Oborob, Litt.D. With portraits. 
12mo, $1 50. School BdUion, 90 cenU. 

THE JOY THAT NO MAN TAKETH FROM YOU. By LlUAS 
Whitifs. 18mo, 50 cents net. 



A MAN OF THE WORLD. By Aasn Patboh Calu 18mo, 60e. net. 
AMERICAN RAILROAD RATES. By Judge Waltbk C. Nona. 

12mo, $1.50 net. 
RAMON A. By HsuR Hunt Jackson. New PattuUna EditUm. Illua- 

trated by Henry Sandham. Crown 8to, $2.00. 
PERICLES AND ASPASIA. By Wai.txb Sataob Landor. Neu) 

Edi/um. 12mo, cloth, S1.60. 
CONSTITUTIONAL LAW OF ENGLAND. By Edward Wathx 

RiDGBS. 8vo, cloth, $4.00 net. 
MEMOIR OF COLONEL HENRY LEE. With selections from his 

writings and speeches. Prepared by John T. Morse, Jr. 8to, half 

leather, $3.00 net. 
THE OUTLOOK BEAUTIFUL. By Lilian Whiting. 16mo, cloth, 

$1.00 net ; white and gold, $1.25 net. 
AN AMERICAN GIRL EN MUNICH. Impressions of a Music Studtnt. 

By Mabkl W. Danibls. 12mo, $1.25. 
THE FREEDOM OF LIFK By Annib Patbon Call. 16mo, $1.25 net. 
A HISTORY OF NORTH AMERICAN LAND BIRDS. By 8. F. 

Baird, T. M. Bbbwbr, and R. Rioowat. JVeu) Popular Edition. 

With over 1000 illustrations. 3 toU., large 8to, in box, $10.00. 
THE COLUMBIAN AND VENEZUELAN REPUBLICS. By William 

L. ScRUSOS. yeu> Edition. Illustrations and maps. 8to, $1.75. 
THE MAN WITHOUT A COUNTRY. By Edward Evbrxtt Hals. 

iV«tr " NcUional " Edition. Illustrated. 16mo, 35 centa. 



FICTION 



THE BREATH OF THE GODS. By Sidnbt McCall. 12mo, $1.50. 
THE BALLINGT0N8. By Fbaxcrs 8<}uirb. 12mo, $1.60. 
THE REJUVENATION OF AUNT MARY. By Ansb Warnrb. Illus- 
trated. 12mo, $1.50. 
THE DIVINING-ROD. A Story of the OU Regions. By Fkahcu N. 

Trorpb. 12mo, $1.50. 
LYNETTE AND THE CONGRESSMAN. By Mart Farlbt Sanborn. 

12mo, SI. 50. 
THE WARD OF THE SEWING CIRCLE. By Edna Edwards Wtlib. 

Frontispiece. 16mo, $1.00. 
THE RACE OF THE SWIFT. By Edwin Carlilb Ltmbt. IUu»- 

trated. 16mo, $1.25. 
THE MASTER MUMMER. By E. Philufs OpPKNRBOf. Illustrated. 

12mo, $1.50. 
CURLY. A Tale of the Arizona Desert By Roobb Pocock. HIiu- 

trated. 12mo, $1.50. 
THE WEIRD PICTURE. By John R. CARUNa. ninatrated. 12mo. 

$1.50. 
JUSTIN WINGATE, RANCHMAN. By John H. Whitson. niua- 

trated. 12mo, $1.50. 



A KNOT OF BLUE. By Williax R. A. Wiuon. Dlustrated. 12mo, 

$1.50. 
ON THE FIRING LINE. By Anna Chapin Rat and Haioltow 

Bbock Fuller. Frontispiece. 12mo, $1.50. 
A8 THE WORLD GOES BY. By Slisabbth W. Brooks. 12mo, 

%iM. 
MY LADY CLANCARTY. By Mart Imlat Tatlor. Hluatntad. 

12mo, $1.50. 
THE VISION OF ELUAH BERL. By Frank Lewis Nason. 12mo, 

$150. 
ITYSTERIOUS MR. SARIN. By E. Phillips Ofpbnhkdi. Illustrated. 

12mo, S1.50. 
A PRINCE OF LOVERS. By 8iR Willlax Maonat. ninstrated. 

12mo, $1.50. 
THE COMINO OF THE KINO. By Joseph Hockdio. Illustrated. 

12mo, $1.50. 
PSYCHE. A Romance of the Reign of Tiberius. By Walteb 8. 

Cramp. Dlustrated. .12mo, $1.50. 
BY THE GOOD 8AINTE ANNA. By Anna Chapin Rat, author of 

" On the Firing Line." Nev) Edition. Illustrated. 12mo, $1.60 



ILLUSTRATED JUVENILES 



AMY IN ACADIA. By Helen Leah Reed. 12mo, $1.50. 

SIDNEY: HER SUMMER ON THE ST. LAWRENCE. By Anna 

Chapin Rat. 12mo, $1.50. 
THE 8CH00LH0USE IN THE WOODS. By A. G. Pltmwon. 

12mo, SI 50. 
THE BOY CAPTIVE IN CANADA. By Mart P. Wells Smtth. 

12mo, 81.25. 
SHIPWRECKED IN GREENLAND. By Arthur B. Thompson. 

12mo, SI. 50. 
WILDERNESS BABIES. By Julia A. Schwartz. 12mo, $1.50. 
WITH SPURS OF GOLD. By Francbs N. Greene and Dollt 

Williams Kirk. 12mo, $1.50. 
MEN OF OLD GREECE. By Jexnib Hall. 16mo, $1.50. School 

Edition, $1.25. 
HEROES OF ICELAND. Adapted from Dasent's translation of 

"The Story of Burnt NjaL" By Allen French. 12mo, $1.50. 



THE OAK-TREE FAIRY BOOK. 
Crown 8to, $1.75. 

BOYS WHO BECAME FAMOUS MEN. 
12mo, S1.25. 



Edited by Clutoh JoRsaov. 
By Harriet Pbari. SEnrmoL 
By WnxLAM 



FRENCH PATHFINDERS IN NORTH AMERICA. 
Henrt Johnson. 12mo, S1.50. 

THE REFORM OF SHAtlN. By Allen French. 12mo, $1.00. 

A DAUGHTER OF THE RICH AND HER FRIENDS THE BLOS- 
SOMS OF MOUNT HUNGER. By M. E. Waller. Nev EdUion. 
12mo, 81.50. 

UNDER THE LILACS. By Louisa M. Alcott. JV«ir lUuttnUod 
Edition. Crown Sro, ^.00. 

JACK AND JILL. By LouuA M. Ai«ott. New Illtutrated Edition. 
Crown 8to, $2.00. 



LITTLE, BROWN & COMPANY, Publishers, 254 Washington St., Boston 



66 THE DIAL [Feb.l, 

THE COST OF SHELTER 

BEING NO. 3 OF "COST OF LIVING" SERIES 

By ELLEN H. RICHARDS 

Instructor in Sanitary Chemistry, Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
12mo, Hi. + 136 pages. Illustrated. Cloth, $1.00. 

CONTENTS 
Tlie House and what it Signifies in Family Life; Typified in Pioneer and Colonial Homes, the Centres of Industry 
and Hospitality. The House Considered as a Measure of Social Standing. Legacies from the Nineteenth Century, 
111 Adapted to Changed Conditions, Cause Physical Deterioration and Domestic Friction. The Place of the House 
in the Social Economy of the Twentieth Century. Possibilities in Sight Provided the Housewife is Progressive. 
Cost per Person and per Family for Various Grades of Shelter. Relation between Cost of Shelter and Total Income 
to be Expended. To Rent or to Own: a Difficult Question. 



"COST OF LIVING" SERIES 

By ELLEN H. RICHARDS 

1. COST OF LIVING. 2. COST OF FOOD. 3. COST OF SHELTER. 

12mo, cloth. 3 vols, in a box. $3.00. 
Order through your bookseller ^ or copies nuill be fornuarded postpaid by the publishers on the receipt oj the retail price. 



JOHN WILEY & SONS 

43 and 45 East 19th Street NEW YORK CITY 



THE MUSICIANS LIBRARY 

A saries of volumes designed especially for library use. When 
complete it will Include all the masterpieces of song and piano music 
Each volume is edited by a leading authority and contains an analytical, biographical introduction of exceptional literary value; also an 
authentic portrait of the composer represented. With the music is given, as far as known, the date of the composition, and the contents 
of each volume when possible are arranged chronologically. The original language of the songs is given in every case, with a poetic, 
singable English translation. The engraving, printing, and binding represent the highest excellence in music publishing. 
The following are now ready : 

SONG VOLUMES 



BRAHMS 

Forty Song* ..... Edited by Jimbs Hunekbr 

FRANZ 

Fifty Songs Edited by W. F. Apthoep 

HANDEL 

Sovgs and Airs .... Edited by Ebbnezeb Prout 

Vol. I. for a High Voice. Vol. II. for a Low Voice. 

SCHUBERT 

Fifty Songs Edited by Henbt T. Finck 

SCHUMANN 
Fifty Songs Edited by W. J. Hendbhbon 



WAGNER 

Lyrics for Soprano. Lyrics for Tenor. Edited by Cabl Arubbustkr 

Fifty Mastersongs 

By Twenty Composers . - - Edited by Henky T. Finck 

Modern French Songs 

Vol. I. Bemberg to Franck. Vnl. H. Georges to Wider, 

Edited by Philip Hale 

Seventy Scottish Songs 

Edited with accompaniments by Helen Hofekibk 

Songs by Thirty Americans 

Edited by Rupebt Huobes 



All of the above, with the exception of the Handel and Wagner volumes, are issued in two editions — for high voice and for low voice 

PIANO VOLUMES 

CHOPIN 



Forty Piano Compositions - - Edited by James Huneker 

COLERIDGE-TA¥LOR 

Twenty-Four Negro Meloiliet. Foreword by the composer ; 

Preface by Booker T. Washington 

LISZT 
Ten Hungarian Rhapsotlies. 

Edited by August Spanuth and John Oeth 




Twenty Original Piano Compositions. Edited by August Spanuth 
Twenty Piano Transcriptions - Edited by August Spanuth 

SCHUMANN 
Fifty Piano Compositions - Edited by Xavkr Scharwenka 

WAGNER 
Selection fnm, the Music Dramas. Arranged for the Piano by 
Otto Singer ; Preface by Richard Aldrich 
Other volumes in preparation. Price each, in heavy paper, cloth back, $1.50 ; in cloth, gilt, $2.50. 

To libraries subscribing for the series a special discount of 33y3% on the paper volumes and 40% on the cloth volumes is 
allowed. Send for descriptive booklet and sample type and music pages. 

No library should be wfithout these matchless volumes. 

OLIVER DITSON COMPANY BOSTON 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



67 



OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS 

AMERICAN BRANCH 

IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENTS FOR 1906 



NOW READY 

SHAKESPEARE 

Facsimile Reproductions of the Portions of Shakespeare Not Included 
in the First Folio. 
Each volume has been printed by the collotype process from the 
finest accessible eopy of the original issue, and, except in point of size, 
is of similar character to the collotype reproduction of the Shake- 
speare First Folio which the delegates published in 1902. 

This series of reproductions has been executed under the superin- 
tendence of Mr. Sidney Lee, who has embodied in full introductions 
the latest results of his researches regarding the bibliographical his- 
tory of each of the four volumes of Shakespeare's poems and of the 
play of Pericles. 

The number of copies printed, of which only a portion now remains 
unsold, is limited to 1,250, of which 250 are for America. All copies 
will be numbered, and Venus and Adonis, the first volume of each set, 
is signed by Mr. Lee. 

Style A. In five volumes, bound in vellum . . . 660.00 
Style B. In five volumes, bound in boards . . . 35.00 
Style C. In a single volume, rough calf .... 35.00 
St} le D. In a single volume, boards 26.00 



NOW COMPLETE 



THE LETTERS OF HORACE WALPOLE 

Fourth Earl of Orford. Chronologically arranged and edited by Mrs. 
Paget Totnbbb. Contains 400 letters not included in the Latest Edition 
of the Collected Letters, 100 of which have never before been printed. 
With additional Xotes, full Analytical Index, 50 Photogravure Illustra- 
tions, and 3 Facsimiles of Original Letters. Complete in 16 volume*. 

I. Demy 8vo. Special Limited Edition, printed upon band-made 
paper, 16 volumes. Bound in boards, with paper labels, $176.00 net, 
per set. Bound in full straight-grained genuine morocco, $225.00 nei, 
per set. 

II. Crown 8vo. Oxford India Paper Edition, in 8 double voIuoMS, 
cloth, gilt edges, S5.75 net, each, or $46.00 net, per set. 

III. Crown 8vo. Ordinary Paper Edition in 16 volumes, cloth, gilt 
top, $2 00 net, each, or $32.00 net, per set. 



THE OXFORD HISTORY OF MUSIC 

General Editor, W. H. Hadow ; Vols. I. and II. by H. E. Wooldrioob ; 
Vol. IIL by Sir C. H. Parrt; Vol. IV. by J. A. Finx«R-MArrLAHD ; 
Vol. V. by W. H. Hadow ; Vol. VI. by E. Dasnrkcthkb. 

Now complete in 8vo volumes, with copious musical illtutrations; 
price, $5 00 per volume, or $30.00 the set. 

The six volumes embrace the History of music from the beginning 
of the fourth to the middle of the nineteenth century ; extending its 
range, in certain directions, as late as to the death of Verdi. 



JOHNSON'S LIVES OF THE POETS 

Edited by the late OaoROS Birkbeck Hnx, with a brief Memoir of Dr. 
Hill by his nephew, Harold Spen'crr Scott, and a full Index. In 
three volumes, medium 8vo ; half roan, $10 50. 

These volumes complete the cycle of works connected with the 
writings of Dr. Johnson, which was promised by Dr. Birkbeck Hill in 
the Preface to his edition of Boswell's Life. He there rightly described 
the editing of Liv^s >•/ the Puett as a still more arduous task even than 
that of Boswell's great book ; but he worked at it unflinchingly to the 
very end of his life, and left it finished in its main outlines, awaiting 
only the general supervision and final touches which a posthumous 
work must always require. All lovers of Johnson's memory owe a 
deep debt of gratitude to Mr. H. Spencer Scott, Dr. Birkbeck Hill's 
nephew, who, with truly filial affection, undertook the heavy task of 
revising the whole mass of references, and of reading, not once or 
twice only, the entire proofs of the book at every stage. The magni- 
tude of the labor involved will be evident to all who are acquainted 
with the width of Dr. Birkbeck Hill's reading, and his love of anno- 
tating his author by means of allusions and references to many books 
and sources, ancient and modem, often by no means easy of aoceas. 

THE PLAYS AND POEMS OF 
ROBERT GREENE 

Edited by Professor Churtov Coixiks, imiform with the Clarendon 
Press editions of Kyd (edited by Mr. Boas) and Lyly (edited by Mr. 
Bond). In two volumes, 8vo, cloth, $6.00. 

This edition is the result of great labor. In the Life of Greene, the 
editor has incorporated much new information, collected by personal 
research in Norfolk and elsewhere. 

THE POETICAL WORKS OF 
WILLIAM BLAKE 

Edited by Jobs Sampson. Demy 8vo. 13.60. 

Mr. Sampson has spared no pains to produce a really definitivs 
edition containing everything that Blake wrote in metrical form. 

Also a daintily printed edition of the Lyrical Poems of William 
Blake with a preface by Professor Walter Raleigh. Price 90 centa. 

THE WORKS OF LUCIAN OF SAMOSATA 

Complete, with exceptions specified in the Preface. Translated by 
H. W. FowLKR and F. O. F0WI.KE. Four Tolumea, extra fc*p. 8to, 
cloth. Price, $4.00. 

AVir York Timet: — "Their work might be original, so far as ita 
ease and vivacity are concerned ; the reader forgets that he is reading 
dialogues and essays written seventeen hundred years ago. There is 
little in Lucisn's subjects to remind one of tbe centuries that have 
passed since they were discussed by him ; and there is nothing in the 
new English version to suggest that Lucian wrote in anything but good 
modem English. . . . This translation is a work of high art, for 
which its authors are to be thanked." 

Dial (Chicago) : — "This edition is a veritable boon." 



OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS 

AMERICAN BRANCH 

Nos. 91-93 FIFTH AVENUE NEW YORK CITY 



68 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 1, 



WEBSTER'S 

INTERNATIONAL 

DICTIONARY 

Is NEEDED in every HOME, SCHOOL, and OFFICE. 

IT IS UP TO DATE AND RELIABLE, having 2380 
pages and 5000 illustrations. There has recently been 
added 25,000 new words and phrases, also a new Oazetteer 
of the World, and a new Biographical Dictionary, all edited 
by W. T. Harris, Ph.D., LL.D., U. S. Comr. of Education. 

IT IS THE STANDARD OF THE COURTS 

Chief Justice Melville W. Fuller, U. 8. Supreme Court, 
has fittingly said: "I regard the International as of the 
utmost value in accuracy of definition, and have found it 
in all respects complete and thornugh.'" 
Every State Supreme Court has recommended it. 

IT IS THE STANDARD OF THE SCHOOLS 

The schoolbooks of the country are based upon the Inter- 
national, — 25,000,000 issued annually, — so that the chil- 
dren are educated in accordance with its principles. It is 
indorsed by all State School Superintendents and educators 
without number. 

REV. WILLIAM R. HARPER. Ph.D., D.D., late 
President University of Chicago said : " Webster's Interna- 
tional lies on my table and I am constantly using it. The 
new edition it most excellent and satisfactory. I find it 
abreast of the times." 

THE INTERNATIONAL is without question the Latest 
and Best dictionary. 

"GET THE BEST." 



' Pdblibheo bt 

& C. MERRIAM CO., Springfield, Mass. 

WRTTB FOB OUR "DICTIONARY WRIKKLBS." 



.-/ 



Books of Timely Interest 



TRADE UNIONISM AND 
LABOR PROBLEMS 

By Professor John R. Commons, 

of the University of Wisconsin. 

Combination from the point of view of Labor. 

XXX. +477 pages. Price, $2.15 net. 



TRUSTS, POOLS, AND 
CORPORATIONS 

By Professor W. Z. Ripley, 

of Harvard University. 

Combination from the point of view of Capital. 

XIV. + 628 pages. Price, $2.50 net. 



MONEY AND BANKING 

(NEW EDITION) 

By Horace White 

Recent legislation has been followed and explained 

and in every way the book has been brought down 

to date. 500 pages. Price, ;^i.8o net. 



Ginn &- Company Publishers 

Trade Department, 29 Beacon Street, Boston 



Enlarged to 240 pages, 2*. 6d. net ; post free, 2s. 9d. Subscriptions, 
10s. per annum, post free. 

THE HIBBERT JOURNAL 

A Quarterly Review of Religion, Theology, and Philosophy. 

EACH NUMBER COMPRISES 240 PAGES. 

Price unchanged. Annual subscription, $2.50. Post free. 

Single number, 75 cents. Post free. 

Principal Contents of the January Number: 

CHRISTIANITY FROM THE POINT OF VIEW OF NON- 
CHRISTIAN RELIGION. III. Christianity from tbe Islamic 
Standpoint. By AMEER ALI, M.A., CLE. 

OUTCOME OF THE THEOLOOICAL MOVEMENT OF OUR 
AQE. By the Rev. HEBER NEWTON, D.D. 

A JAPANESE BUDDHIST SECT WHICH PREACHES SAL- 
VATION BY FAITH. By JAMES TROUP. 

THE WORKING FATE OF THE SOCIAL REFORMER. 11. By 
Professor HENRT JONES, LL.D. 

CHRISTIANITY AND SCIENCE. I.— The Material Element 

in Christianity . By SIR OLIVER LODGE. 
FAITH, REASON, AND RELIGION. By P. C. S. SHILLER. 
WHO MAKES OUR THEOLOGY ? By Professor E. ARMITAQE. 
CHRIST AND C/ESAR. By Professor JAMES IVERACH, D.D. 
DO I BELIEVE IN THE RESURRECTION ? By F. STORBB 

TURNER. 
INFINITY. By ST. GEORGE STOCK. 
RELIGIOUS KNOWLEDGE AS A SCHOOL SUBJECT. By 

A. S. FERNELL, M.A. 
ARE THE CLERGY HONEST? By the Rev. W. MANNING, M.A. 
PLEA FOR MYSTICISM ONCE MORE. By Mrs. O. H. FOX. 
DISCUSSIONS. REVIEWS, BIBLIOGRAPHY OP RECENT 

LITERATURE. 

A Specimen Number free from the PUBLISHERS. 
Subscriptions are booked and single numbers sold by 
a. E. Stechert & Co., 129-133 West Twentieth Street, New York, 
American Unitarian Association, 25 Beacon Street, Boston, 
or from any good bookseller, or the publishers, 

WILLIAMS & NORGATE, 

14 Henrietta Street, Covent Garden, London, England. 



THE BOOKS 


OF ALL PUBLISHERS 


are carried in our stock, 


which is larger and more 


general than that of any 
Other house in the country. 


LIBRARY ORDERS 


given prompt and intelligent 
service. Our large stock 


and extensive library expe- 
rience enables us to give 


valuable aid and advice to 


libraries and librarians. 


CATALOGUE CARDS and 


CARD CABINETS 


We carry a special line and 
will be glad to furnish a 


price list. 


LIBRARY DEPARTMENT 


A. C. McCLURG & CO. 


CHICAGO 



1906] THE DIAL. 69 

HARPER'S FEBRUARY PUBLICATIONS 



MARK TWAIN'S LIBRARY OF HUMOR 

This series is to be a veritable encyclopaedia of humor. Not only Mark Twain and others known 
to the public as humorists will be represented, but the great editor will go further and give rightful 
place to all writers who have shown a vein of real humor in their work. That Mark Twain 
knows best what is lasting humor and how to select it goes without saying. 

VOLUME I. — MEN AND THINGS 

This volume contains some of the most laughable writings of Artemus Ward, Eugene Field, 
Bret Harte, John Kendrick Bangs, Thomas Bailey Aldrich, Bill Nye, " Mr. Dooley," E. S. 
Martin, and others ; also humorous selections from the works of W. D. Howells, Henry James, 
C. D. Warner, G. W. Curtis, etc., while ample space is given to Mark Twain's own writings. 

Illustrated. Crown 8vo. Price, ^1.25. 

RANDVAR THE SONGSMITH 

By OTTILIE A. LILJENCRANTZ 
Author of "The Thrall of Leif the Lucky," etc. 

A romance of the fabled Norse occupation of America, flushed with passion and great deeds, and 
starred with beautiful episodes. Randvar, the jarl's song-maker, loses his heart to the jarl's sister — 
the old love-tale, but in a new atmosphere, where stirring fact and mystic legend meet. 
Throughout resounds the clangor of arms, with soft interludes of love and poetry. The were- 
wolf myth is interwoven with the story with telling dramatic effect. Altogether it is a tale of real 
crispness, of charm, novelty, and stirring romance. 

With frontispiece in colors. Price, ^1.50. 

COLUMBUS THE DISCOVERER 

{HEROES OF AMERICAN HIsrORT) 

By FREDERICK A. OBER 
Author of "Young Folks' History ot Mexico," etc. 

The career of the great explorer is followed in detail, and his personality set forth with striking 
clearness. Mr. Ober, under a commission from the United States government, has made extensive 
travels to seek out whatever vestiges of the early settlements remain in the West Indies. These 
researches, together with his visits to Spain, have thrown much new and valuable light on 
Columbus's career, which is herewith presented. 

Illustrated. Price, ^i.oo net. 

EVOLUTION THE MASTER-KEY 

By C. W. SALEEBY, Ph.D. 
Author of "The Cycle of Life," etc 

Dr. Saleeby is known as one of the ablest and most scholarly writers on scientific subjects. In 
this volume he gives an explanatory and illuminating comment on the doctrine of Herbert Spencer, 
in which he discusses and illustrates the theory of evolution as it is now known in the light of the 
enormous mass of knowledge that has been gained in the forty-four years since "First Principles" 
was written. In addition to the intrinsic interest of his subject-matter. Dr. Saleeby's manner of 
presentation is admirable. His English is clear and terse, and his illustrative examples are 
numerous and to the point. 

Price, ^2.00 net. 

HARPER & BROTHERS PUBLISHERS NEW YORK 



70 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 1, 



The Bible in Plain English 

Many of the Bible's deepest and most significant 
passages are misunderstood or altogether missed by 
the average reader, because of 
the strange and unfamiliar 
words no longer used or known 
except to the student and 
scholar. 

It was to make the meaning 
of the Scriptures plain to all that 
the work of bringing out the 

American 

Standard 

Bible 

was imdertaken. For twenty, 
nine years the ablest and most 
devout scholars in America and 
England gave themselves to 
reverent, patient and careful 
study of the original text, and 
how to convey its exact true 
meaning in the language ot 
to-day. 

The American Standard is 
not a new Bible, but the old 
Bible made plain. Not a new story, but the Old 
Story more clearly and simply told. 

It is not a departure from the inspired Word, but 
a drawing closer to it. 

It is the standard for all the great religious 
papers of this country, and is used by Ministers, 
Theological Seminaries, Bible Training 
Schools, Y. M. C. A., Universities, Colleges, 
Religious Associations, and the various 
Societies of every denomination, because it is 
the Bible in plain English, thus making the use of 
Bible Commentaries unnecessary. 

Write for Our 40-page Book, 
"Story of the American Standard Bible" 

SENT FREEj which tells why the 
Bible was revised, how it was ac- 
complished, and shows sample 
pages, bindinprs, etc., of the many 
styles issued. Your name on a postal 
card, with the name of your 
bookseller, will get you this book. 

All booksellers have in stock, 
or can quickly get from us, any style 
of the American Standard Bible you 
order. Prices 3;c. to $18.00, accord- 
ing; to size and binding. See that 
you ?et the American Standard 
Kdition. Look for the Nelson im- 
print and the endorsement of the 
American Revision Committee on 
the back of the title page. (J^^'We 
sell direct where booksellers will 
not supply. 

THOMAS NELSON & SONS 
41 V, East 18th Street. New York 





A Few 
Pilgrim Press Publications 

that every Public Library should have 



ST. ABIGAIL OF THE PINES By William 
A. Knight, author of "The Song of our 
Syrian Guest." $i.oo. 
A strongstory of whaling days in NewBedford. 

THE BOY PROBLEM By W. B. Forbush, 
with introduction by President G. Stanley 
Hall. 75 cents net. 

THE CHURCHES AND EDUCATED 

MEN By E. N. Hardy. ^1.25 net. 

EDUCATIONAL EVANGELISM: The 
religious discipline of youth By C. £. 

McKlNLEY. 

Henry Ward Beecher's Books, Dr. R. S. Storr's 
Orations and Addresses, and stories by Frank 
E. Sweet, Ida T. Thurston, Mrs. Frank Lee, 
Willis Boyd Allen, W. E. Barton, and other 
popular writers for young people, are published 
by us, and may be ordered direct at wholesale 
rates or through booksellers. Catalogue free. 



THE PILGRIM PRESS 

14 Beacon Street 175 Wabash Avenue 

BOSTON CHICAGO 



Impressions of 
Japanese Architecture 

and the Allied Arts 

By RALPH ADAMS CRAM 
Handsomely bound and illustrated. Net fz.oo 

William Elliot Qriffis says : " A very able and delight- 
ful book. Mr. Cram has entered into the spirit of Japan, 
and his work is true appreciation, which will surely win 
many readers." 

The Appreciation of Pictures 

By RUSSELL STURGIS 

73 illustrations. Net $1.50 

A critical and historical treatment of pictures by the lead- 
ing art critic of the country. A companion volume to 
the following 

NOTABLE ART BOOKS 

The Appreciation of Sculpture 

By RUSSELL STURGIS Net fi.50 

How to Judge Architecture 

By RUSSELL STURGIS Net $1.50 

Pictorial Composition 

By HENRY R. POORE Net 51.50 

THE BAKER & TAYLOR CO. 

PUBLISHERS 33-37 E. 17th St.. NEW YORK 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



71 



Burrows' New Books 



By JAMES DOUGLAS. LL.D. 

Old France in the New World 

(Quebec in the 17th Century* 

OetoTO, Buckram, extra, fully illustrated, $2.50 net. 

(Postage. 21 cents.) 

In s rerie w ot great length the iVeir York Tribtme asid : " The work 
is a valuable addition to the inereaatng Uteratnre o* Canadian his- 
tory " ; and the ManOobn Frea Pr«s*, in a four column critiqiia, 
concludes as folloirs : " ' Old France * will be inraluable to thoae irito 
wish to study in the formatire period the people who now form one- 
third of the population of the Dominion " 

A Book Without an Unfavorable Notice. 

This full and comprehensive volume by Dr. Douglas, on the early 
history of Canada, is realy an epitome on all that is intereating in 
Iiorth American history dming the period covered. Tlie final chatters 
draHng with the Hudson Bay CoMpany. Colonization CowpwWw Fast 
and Pnaent, and the portions devoted 'to Indians and Aictudoliogf, are 
of the highest importance. The index is admirable. 
Descriptite eireular on application. 



ORTH (SAMUEL P.) 

Five American Politicians: Burr- 
Douglas-Clay-Clinton-Van Buren 

Size, 7' 2 X 5*4 inches ; 447 pages, photog^vure portraits, 
cloth $2.00. (Poetage, 12 cents). 

Hie machinery of modem polities had its ineeptioa fai the derire 
of certain men to carry oat issues and fulfil ambitions highly wwresssty 
to their own advanoement sod soooess. There have been many dis- 
tinct successes in this pecniiar field, bat it hss been Dr. Oith'a ooject 
to show the beginnii^ of this e ssentially American phasn ot politieal 
life. Each of Uie five great names contributed soma apaeial fsatora. 

To Aaron Burr may be given the credit of the first AMeriean politi- 
cal machine. It has survived the century as ''^'-— "j HaO. 

Da Witt Clinton was the founder of the Bpotla System, the earlieat 
aad moet pernicious of all forms of graft. The life at tke osaa was a 
series of paradoxes ; the strong and weak points constantly in contrast 
one with the other. 

The system originated by Clinton was deftly carried by another to 
Washington. The story of Xartin Van Buren is one of careful plotting 
aad clever manipulation. 

A Master and Victim of Compromise aad Coalition, Henry Clay 
Stands preeminent. Five times be stood for the presidency, 'either 
bofbra the convention or the people, only to be defeated. For half a 
century he was a leading actor on oar poUtical stage ; the organiser of 
a powerful party ; the originator of great issues. 

One other name — Stephen A. Douglas, Defender of fttata Bi^ta, 
mnst be iaelnded. His life was given to that period which dateragined 
for na whether we were to be a nation or a confederation. 

The book is written in a lucid, straightforward manner, the aatbor's 
Aiaf object being to bring oat the foremost political episodes in ^e 
Urea of the five men under coniidatatiaak 

Ue growth of the System aad party atacbinery ; the origin of the 
caacw s aad its decline; the rise and development of the convention 
^aa, and other details of modem politics are treated exhaustively 
from aa historical standpoint. 



Narrative of the Adventures of 

ZenaS Leonard, a Native of Clearfield 
County, Pa., who spent five years in Trap- 
ping for Furs, Trading with the Indians, 1839. 

Kdited by Dr. W. F. Wagkss. An accurate reprint of one of the 
■careeat pieces of Americana, three or four copies only being known to 
exist. As a member of the Walker California Kzpeditioa of 183^di 
and one of Bonneville's party at a later date, the aothiv gives many 
facts heretofore nnantboiticated. Portraits, iUastratiaBS, aad tamf* 
are added, and the volume ranks with Iiewis aad Clarfc or the Gaos 
JoamaL An edition of five haadrad aad twenty copies only will be 
isRied, with a complete introdaetian, copioaa notes, aad an index. 
Printed on Dickinson paper, each volume ntnnbered. 

Octavo, cloth, extra, $5.00 net. (Postage, 12 cents.) 
THE BURROWS BROTHERS COMPAXY 

PUBLI8HEBS :: :: CLEVELAND, OHIO 



BOOKS FOR LIBRARIES 

Published in 1905 by 

HENRY HOLT & CO. 

29 West Twenty-third Street, New York 



DRAMA 

On Ten Plays of Shakespeare. By Stopfobo 
Brooke. 12mo. $2.25.* "A more deligfatfal volnme of 
criticism it wonld be hard to find." — Boston Transcript. 

Dramatists of Today. By Edward Etssktt Hai^e, Jr. 
12mo. $1.50.* " Well worth reading a second time." — 
Dial. 

Shakespeare's London. By H. T. Stkfhsksoh. 
With oyer 40 lUastratiOTis. 12mo. $2.00.* 

NATURE 

A Guide to the Study of Fishes. By Dayid Stars 
Jordan. 1223 pp. 936 illustrations. 2 vols. 8to. 
$12.00.* 

American Insects. By Vernon L. Kkixogg. With 
812 figures, 11 colored plates, 647 pp. Svo. $5.00.* 

Animal Snapshots. By Shuas A. Lottridgk. With 
85 photographs. 12mo. $1.75.* " No more commend- 
able book treating of wild life has ever oome ander our 
notice.'* — Field and Stream. 

Extinct Animals. By K Rat Lakkkstkr. Profnaely 
illustrated. Large 12mo. $1.75 net. "A delight . . . 
filled with photographs . . . fascinating to a child." — 
Critic. 

RUSSIA AND THE PHILIPPINES 

Russia. By Sir Dosaxd Mackenzie Walxack. New, 

up to date edition. 8to. $5.00. 
Russia from Within. By Axexasbkb Ular. Large 

12mo. $1.75.* 
Our Philippine Problem. By H. P. Wqjjs. 12mo. 

$1.50.* 

JUVENILE 

Nut Brown Joan. By M. A. Taggart. Decorated. 
12mo. $1.50. 

Dandelion Cottage. By Carroix Watson Rahkih. 
12mo. Illustrated. $1.50. "An exceptionally good 
book for girls.'*— Wisconsin Free Library Bulletin. 

The Boys of Bob's Hill. By C. P. Burton. Dlns- 
trated. 12mo. $1.25. 

The Peter Newell Mother Goose. By C. S. Bailkt. 
Illustrated by Petke Newel. 12mo. $1.50. 

Young Folks' Cyclopedia of Natural History. By 
J. D. Chajcpun and F. A. LrcAS. Profusely illus- 
trated. l-2mo. $2.50. 

A Book of Verses for Children. CompUed by K Y. 

Lucas. Library Edition. $1.00.* "We know of no 
other anthology for children so complete and well 
arranged.'' — The Critic. 



* Add ten per cent of price for postage. 



72 THE DIAL [Feb. 1,1906. 



Important New Macmillan Books 



JUST READY 

Mr. William Holman Hunt's reminiscent 

Pre=Raphaelitisni and the Pre=Raphaelite Brotherhood 

Two volumes, richly illtistrated, $10.00 net. 
" At last there is set before the world the book which has been none too patiently waited for 
for many years past, and an absorbing, interesting, and valuable book it is, fluently and admir- 
ably written, and on its lighter side vastly entertaining. . . . Likely to survive as long as 
English art is treasured and studied." — Daily Graphic (London). 

AMONG RECENT ISSUES THE SECOND EDITION OF 

Mr. P. Marion Crawford's Salve Venetia I Gleanings from History 

" These two volumes, rich in anecdote and story, packed with legend and fact gleaned from 

• Venetian history, make interesting reading. . . . The make-up of the book is most attractive, 

and it is beautifully and lavishly illustrated with 225 drawings by Joseph Pennell, . . . and 

they render admirably the picturesque quality of Venice." — The Evening Post (New York). 

Two volumes in a box, crown 8vo, $5.00 net (carriage extra). 

Mr. Samuel Isham's illustrated History of American Painting 

" Those of his acquaintance have long known Mr. Isham's exceptional fitness for his task. 
... It was expected to be good ; it is even better than was expected." — The Nation. 

Uniform with " Taffs Sculpture," in a box, $5.00 net. 

Mr. B. L. Putnam=Weale's The Re=Shaping of the Far East 

By the author of "Manchu and Muscovite" 

Illustrated from fine photographs. Two volumes, $6.00 net. 
"A remarkably searching, analytical, clear, and comprehensive presentation of what is on the 
surface, and beneath it as well, an intricately complicated and perplexing situation. . . . 
Withal, there has been nothing printed so far that so minutely dissects and so lucidly demon- 
strates the complex organism of Oriental diplomacy." — The New York Tribune. 
JUST READY 

Mr. Winston Spencer Churchill's Life of Lord Randolph Churchill 

" There is every dish in it that can whet the palate, all the things that everyone wants to know 
and only a very few can find out ; the real views that lie behind the plausibilities of the plat- 
form, the private relations that lie behind public politeness, all the secret springs of which the 
world sees only the resulting acts. And yet it is no book of the backstairs. The revelations 
are of things of real interest, and are given in letters from the actors themselves, published 
with their consent." — Times' s Literary Supplement (London). 

In two 8vo volumes, $9 00 net. 

Dr. Henry Charles Lea's A History of the Inquisition of Spain 

By the author of the " History of the Inquisition of the Middle Ages." In four volumes, 8vo, 
to be issued at intervals of about six months. 

The price of Volume I., ready January 25, is $2.50 net. 
The standing of Dr. Lea's " History of the Inquisition of the Middle Ages," which has been 
translated into both French and German, g^ves assurance that this work will take a permanent 
position as an authoritative and dispassionate account of an institution which possesses 
perennial interest, whose history extended over nearly five hundred years disastrous to the 
glory and prosperity of Spain. 

THE MACMILLAN COMPANY, PUBLISHERS, 64-66 FIFTH AVE., NEW YORK 



THE DIAL 

a Snni=ffiont!)l2 Journal of l-iterarg Criticism, Biscussion, axCb Enfotmatioiu 



THE DIAL (founded in ISSO) it jniblitJied on the Itt and 16th 
of each month. Terms of SvrBsc&rpTiois,$S. a year in advance, 
pottage prepaid in the United State*, Canada, and Mexico; 
<n othet'countrie* compri*ed in the Postal Union, 50 cent* a 
year for extra postage miut he added. BEMrrrAifCES *7iould 
be by check, or by expret* or po*tal order, payable to THE 
DIAL COyfPAy^T. Unle** otherwi*e ordered, *ub*cription* 
will begin with the current number. When no direct reque*t 
to di*continue at expiration of tub*cription i* received, it i* 
assumed that a continuance of the *ub*eription i* de*ired. 
ADVEBTisrs-Q "RATBa furnished on aj>plicaiion. All communi- 
catiotis should be addressed to 

THE DIAL, Fine Arts Building, Chicago. 

BNTEBEO AT THE CHICAGO POSTOFFICB AS SEOOSI>-CLASS MATTES 
BY THE DIAL COMPANY, PUBUSHEBS. 

No. 471. FEBRUARY 1, 1906. Vol. XL. 



COXTEXTS. 

PAOS 

THE LIBRARY IN THE SCHOOL 73 

FIELD LIBRARIES. Melvil Dewey 75 

COMMOnCATIONS 78 

Some Bibliographic Xeeds and Possibilities. 

Eugene Fairfield McPike. 
Mr. Swinburne as "a Love Poet." Francis 

Howard Williams. 

A BIOGRAPHY OF CARLYLE"S BIOGRAPHER. 

Percy F. Bicknell 80 

SOME CLTRRENT RAILWAY-RATE DISCUSSION. 

H. Parker Willis 82 

A DEFINTrrST: GOETHE BIOGRAPHY. Lewis A. 

Bhoades 85 

REASON IN RELIGION AND m ART. A. K. 

Rogers 87 

TWO RECENT BOOKS ON SHAKESPEARE. 

Charles H. A. Wager 89 

BRIEFS ON N'EW BOOKS 92 

The negro influence in our history. — A poet's 
first book of prose. — Washington as explorer and 
expansionist, - — Dr. Osier in pithy paragraphs. — 
Romantic episodes in the history of Illinois. — 
Milton and his contemporaries. — Records of a 
photographer-naturalist. — English men and meas- 
ures from 1876 to 1885. ^A contribution to the Gar- 
rison anniversary. — Comments on things and places, 
books and men. — A lively study of " La Grande 
Mademoiselle." 

BRIEFER MENTION 96 

NOTES 97 

TOPICS IN LEADING PERIODICALS .... 98 

LIST OF NT:W BOOKS 99 



THE LIBRARY IN THE SCHOOL. 



The effort to bring public libraries into coop- 
erative relations with public schools, which had 
its tentative beginnings about a quarter of a cen- 
tury ago, has since that time steadily progressed 
until the work of the teacher has gained numer- 
ous points of contact with the work of the libra- 
rian, and both schools and libraries have been 
benefited by the work. In many places, teachers 
are given special facilities for obtaining the books 
they need in their classrooms, and pupils are en- 
couraged to become card-holders at the libraries. 
Sometimes delivery stations are established in 
the schools themselves ; while in the libraries, 
special rooms are invitingly fitted up for the use 
of children, and special attendants provided to 
meet their peculiar needs. 

This is the briefest kind of summary of an 
extension of library activity that has accom- 
plished many good results, and may be expected 
to accomplish many more. But no amount of 
effort of this description can absolve the school 
from the duty of having a library of its own, 
and of enlisting library intelligence to put the 
books to their proper use. Now schools do not. 
»as a rule, perform their duty in this respect, and 
their failure to perform it constitutes one of the 
most obvious present defects in their manage- 
ment. It is the purpose of the present article 
to indicate in rotigh outline what the schools 
ought to do, and what the friends of public 
education ought to insist upon until the needed 
reforms are secured. What we shall say will 
apply mainly to schools of higher grade, because 
elementary schools cannot do very much in this 
direction. They can encourage a taste for read- 
ing good books of the juvenile class, and can see 
that such are made obtainable : they can also 
give children some elementary instruction in the 
use of books for study. For these purposes a 
few works of reference and a carefully-chosen 
circulating library shovdd suffice. But when 
the high-school years are reached, a far more 
thorough-going plan should be adopted. A 
general idea of what that plan should be, and 
some notion of its points of application to the 
ordinary high-school course of study, will be 
given in the present discussion. 



74 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 1, 



A concrete example will serve to indicate our 
point of view. We have just now in mind one 
of the largest and newest high schools in one of 
our largest cities. It is a school occupying half 
of a city block, and costing upwards of a quar- 
ter of a million dollars. It is a school providing 
an extensive variety of courses in mathematics, 
natural science, ancient and modern languages, 
history and literature, besides the courses in those 
so-called " commercial " subjects with which so 
many of our schools have been equipped of late 
years by way of a concession to the demand for 
what is hastily assumed to be a " practical " 
form of education. Now a full third of the 
space of the school — practically one whole floor 
out of the three — is set apart for the labora- 
tories in which are taught the courses in physi- 
ography, biology, physics, and chemistry. One 
small room constitutes the library, a room that 
will accommodate about thirty students at a 
time, and will hold barely twenty-five himdred 
volumes ! Nor does this school offer a very ex- 
ceptional case. Many other high schools of its 
kind are in existence, or are now being built 
upon the same lopsided plan, and it is time to 
make an energetic protest in behaK of the 
cultural subjects and the proper provision for 
their pursuit. 

School authorities have become so used to this 
state of thmgs that they do not stop to think how 
absurd it is. Roughly speaking, we may say 
that the work of a typical high school falls into 
five classes, approximately equal in the amount 
of attention they receive. One of these five 
classes is the natural science group, another is 
the foreign language group, another is the his- 
tory group, and another is the English language 
and literature group. The fifth group is a mis- 
cellaneous assemblage to which everything else 
may be relegated. Now the all-important thing 
to be noted is that the library must be the labora- 
tory of two entire groups besides parts of others, 
or of fully one-half of the entire work done by 
students of the school. Yet in the tyjDical case 
we have outlined, the natural science group alone 
has something like twenty times the laboratory 
space assigned (in the library room) to the far 
larger group of the studies wliich are best called 
humanities. The disproportion between bread 
and sack in Falstaff's tavern score is the only 
parallel worthy of the occasion. 

We woidd not be taken as grudging in any 
way the most liberal provision of appliances for 
the teaching of science. In the endeavor to 
rescue education from the grasp of text-book rou- 
tine, scientific studies presented the first phase 



of the difficulty to be attacked, because their 
need of such rescue was the most urgent. To 
teach physics and chemistry from books alone, 
or with the aid of a few demonstrations by the 
mstructor, was a farcical proceeding, and it is an 
undoubted gain to have substituted therefor a 
more rational method. But that difficidty has 
been coped with, and now hardly exists. The 
urgent problem of the present is to provide the 
means for teaching history and literature by the 
direct use of their materials ; that is, to substi- 
tute the easy use of many books for the hard 
memorizing of one. Our schools are only just 
beginning to grapple with this problem, and its 
solution will not be reached untd the same meas- 
ure of facilities is afforded in this group of 
studies as it has long been taken for granted must 
be afforded in the scientific gi-oups. In other 
words, the teaching of history and literatirre 
must be carried on in a weU-equipped library, 
with constant use of the authorities, with the 
setting of tasks that cannot be performed with- 
out the student's own correlation of many printed 
sources of information, and with the kind of in- 
telligent guidance that can alone be given by 
the instructor who is himseK familiar with the 
methods and materials of historical and literary 
investigations. 

To bring about this desired result a school 
must have a library in which at least one-half 
of the class-work in history and literature may 
be done. The library must be large enough to 
acconunodate aU the classes that need to use it, 
which means that the space it occupies should 
be approximately equal to the space now occu- 
pied by the combined laboratories. It must be 
provided with many books, and often with many 
copies of the same book, wliich is quite as neces- 
sary a tiling to do as to provide many microscopes 
for students of biology and many balances for 
students of chemistry. And it must have a gen- 
erous appropriation for its maintamance, which 
means that the total sum annually available for 
school supplies ought to be apportioned about 
equally between library and laboratories. It is 
a matter of the barest justice that as much 
money should be spent upon books as upon 
biological supplies and chemical glassware and 
reagents. We believe that the most important 
thing now to be done for the improvement of our 
secondary education is to develop the human- 
istic studies upon the lines here suggested, and 
to make of the library the chief centre of the 
school's activity. 

A school can do nothing more valuable than 
thus to accustom its students to the intelligent' 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



75 



handling of books. The watchword of the last 
generation was an appeal to get away from 
hooks and into direct contact with things. This 
was justifiable in so far as it meant the getting 
away from text-books, and into contact with 
the real materials of knowledge, and the ap- 
peal has been fully vindicated in the case of 
the scientific subjects. Now in the case of 
history and literature, it must be remembered, 
the books themselves are the things — not the 
student's own text-book, which may here be 
as much of an obstacle or a nvdsance as it was in 
the other case, but the books that are used for 
investigation, for comparison, for criticism, and 
for the training of judgment and logical facidty. 
There is no respect in which work done with 
books in this sense may not prove as effective 
for the ultimate purposes of education as work 
done ^ith the microscope and the balance. We 
regard this as an imderstatement of the truth, 
and would not hesitate to make a much larger 
claim. 

Furthermore, when we consider how much the 
education that is continued after schooltime is 
over depends upon the right use of books, we 
can hardly be too emphatic in asserting that 
something of that use should be learned in the 
school. Yet almost nothing of the sort really is 
learned. The average student in a high school 
does not know the difference between a table of 
contents and an index, does not know what a con- 
cordance is, does not know how to find what he 
wants in an encyclopaedia, does not even know 
that a dictionary has many other uses besides that 
of supplying definitions. Still more pitiful is 
his naive assumption that a book is a book, and 
that what book it is does not paiiicularly mat- 
ter. It is the commonest of all experiences to 
hear a student say that he has got a given state- 
ment from a book, and to find him quite inca- 
pable of naming the book. That the source 
of his information, as long as that information 
is printed somewhere, should be of any conse- 
quence, is quite surprising to him, and still more 
the suggestion that it is also his duty to have 
some sort of an opinion concerning the value 
and credibility of the authority he thus blindly 
quotes. If the school library . and the instruction 
given in connection with it, shovdd do no more 
than impress these two elementary principles 
upon the minds of the whole student body, it 
woiJd go far towards accovmting for itself as an 
educational means. That it may, and shoidd, do 
much more than this is the proposition that we 
have sought to maintain, and we do not see how 
its essential reasonableness may be gainsaid. 



FIELD LIBR ARIES. 

Every civilized nation has learned that education 
pays on the material side as well as on the higher 
plane. No wise statesman dares neglect it. Our free 
schools reach the remotest hamlet. Indeed, distri- 
bution of schools has been overdone, and like other 
states New York finds that many of its 11,000 
school districts could wisely be consolidated ; for it 
would often be cheaper to transport the children 
from two or more of the weakest districts to a better 
school, than to attempt to support so many different 
buildings and teachers. Whatever the method, no 
intelligent man denies that every home must be 
reached with educational facifities. 

This education is for the young, in school, and 
for a limited course. It is of priceless importance, 
and well worth the many mUlions paid for it yearly. 
But there is another means of education quite as 
important, not for the young alone but for all, to be 
had at home instead of in school, and lasting not 
for a short course but through life. For this the 
term •• home education " has wisely been chosen to 
differentiate it from school education, which is 
obtained not at home but in regular teaching insti- 
tutions. The problems of home education are com- 
paratively new. There is great lack both of men 
and money for its work. We must choose from many 
possible plans those that will give the best practical 
results from limited resources. In a comprehensive 
view of home education we find five distinct factors : 
libraries, museums, clubs, extension teaching, and 
tests and credentials. Of these any competent stu- 
dent is sure to find fibraries easily the most important, 
efl&cient, and economical, and the natiuul centre for 
the other four agencies. The growing recognition 
of this fact is shown by more than a hundred new 
laws concerning fibraries passed in America, and 
402 gifts, made from private resources, aggregating 
816,000.000, in a single recent year. There has 
been nothing in educational history equal to this 
modern bbrarj' movement. It has the most support 
and the least opposition, the most Uberal grants by 
taxpayers, the most generous gifts from philanthro- 
pists. We are astounded to find how much has been 
done for this side of education, but more astounded 
when we study deeper to see how fittle of what is 
needed has as yet been accomplished. We spend 
fabulous sums each year and are proud of oiu- sta- 
tistics, but we reach only a small proportion of those 
who most need help. Any observer who looks below 
the surface finds many houses in both city and coun- 
try where no good books are bought or read. Some 
people read nothing ; some only newspapers, and 
these often the poorest rather than the best ; some 
read magazines, good, poor, or indifferent ; but the 
number of book readers is pathetically small. There 
are some whole villages where not half a dozen of 
the best books find their way. There are coUegjes 
where the amount of the best reading outside the 
prescribed text-books is startfingly restricted. Stu- 
dents are too busy with required studies and other 



76 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 1, 



duties, and as a result are graduated and sent out 
to swell the army of non-readers, though the reading 
habit would have been worth to them more than all 
the learning of their college text-books. 

We have learned that in education as in farming 
new soil gives the largest crops. A given amount 
of effort does double good when spent on the young 
rather than on adults. Profiting by this knowledge, 
we give more attention than ever before to the 
needs of children. Special rooms, and librarians 
naturally fitted and trained for assisting children, 
are being added to the best libraries. Home libra- 
ries reaching little groups "with books and a friend " 
are sowing good seed, but there is not more than one 
where a thousand are needed. The wise farmer who 
has more land than he can work properly looks 
over his territory and selects for first attention that 
which promises best returns. As we look over the 
library field ripe for the harvest on every side, we 
find the greatest need at present in the rural sec- 
tions. A little over haK of our people live in the 
country. They have a larger margin of leisure, 
fewer distractions, and fewer opportunities to get 
the best reading. They read more slowly and care- 
fully, and get more good from books tha^i their high- 
pressure city cousins, whose crowded lives leave little 
time for intellectual digestion. These facts are un- 
questioned, and one would think that philanthropists 
wishing to do the greatest good with a given sum of 
money would look to the country, rather than to the 
town where large numbers in a small territory make 
it easy to support public libraries. One might fairly 
expect that more than half the gifts for books and 
libraries would go to that half of the people who by 
common consent have most leism'e for reading and 
fewest opportunities to get books ; but instead of hav- 
ing their pro rata share, which woidd have been 
about 52 per cent., an analysis of the 402 gifts of a 
recent year aggregating $16,000,000 shows less 
than one per cent, devoted to this rural reading. 
The explanation is doubtless that attention has never 
been properly called to the facts, and that the solu- 
tion is not obvious. A rich man who wishes to im- 
prove the reading of his fellows can build a library 
or stock it with books in a city, but he hardly knows 
how to reach rural homes even if he understands 
their pressing needs. 

As a partial solution of the problem, we started 
our New York State system of travelling books, 
pictures, and collections, in 1892. Remarkable re- 
sults have been secured, and the system, still growing 
rapidly, has been gradually but generally accepted 
as a permanent factor in education. A community 
which is too small, or which thinks itself too smaU, 
to own and support a public library may thus feel 
free to accept, for a small fee for transportation, 
a hundred of the choicest books for six months. 
Novelty has then worn off. A library, like a res- 
ervoir, becomes stagnant, and the interest of readers 
can be maintained only by adding new books at 
frequent intervals, or by changing the entire libra- 
ries in the travelling system. Thus the same books 



move on from point to point till they are actually 
worn out in service, giving larger returns for each 
doUar invested than has ever been found possible 
in any other field. This method, one of the most 
valuable in modern librarianship, does the greatest 
good at moderate cost. 

It is easy to devise ways of doing good, but most 
of them cost too much to be practicable. It is easy 
to devise inexpensive plans, but most of them are 
not effective. To secure efficiency at low cost is 
the great problem in all educational, religious, or 
philanthropic work. You may compel your horse 
to go to the water, but he will drink only if he 
wishes it. The best library, either jjermanent or 
travelling, is of little use to the man who will not 
read. It is well worth all it costs to supply books 
to those who are hungry for them, but we must not 
neglect the underlying problem of creating the appe- 
tite. Our system is not a complete success until it 
reaches most of the people for whom it was planned. 
The inexorable law of circulation, which applies to 
a community as much as to the blood, has taught us 
that we cannot safely ignore the submerged tenth. 
Five Points filth may beget Fifth Avenue fever. 
Their folly may cause our funeral. If there is a 
cancer in the foot the poison will circulate to the 
heart and brain. A town is not safe because it has 
sewer mains through every street if the residents 
fail to connect their houses with them. Schoolhouses 
and teachers do not educate if the children stay 
away. Boards of health may compel reckless citi- 
zens to connect their houses with the sewer system, 
truant officers may enforce compulsory education 
laws, but statutes cannot help us in our equally press- 
ing need of inducing people to read the best books. 

As in war and manufacturing, it is the man behind 
the machine or method that determines its efficiency. 
Much good is done by making books readily avail- 
able. The taste of readers improves by reading 
even without guidance, but the best results demand 
that behind the library's books there shall be an 
earnest human soul, whose chief concern is to make 
other lives better and more useful, tlirough the influ- 
ence best exerted by good reading. The visitor in 
our little home libraries who meets once a week with 
the children, to give needed help ; the reference libra- 
rian, now so prominent a factor in the best libraries ; 
and the children's librarian, one of the best of the 
new special workers, — these are all practical recog- 
nitions of the fact that no magnificence of buildings, 
wealth of resourses and endowments, excellence of 
catalogues and indexes, or liberality of hours and 
rules, can ever take the place of the trained expert 
who is at heart the reader's sympathetic friend. 
Such a helper may change the whole course of a life 
by giving the experimental reader confidence and 
stimulating interest at the first short interview. The 
man or boy who has been spending his evenings 
lounging about the country store or saloon and 
doubtfully tries the experiment of going to the 
library instead, should be handled with as much 
skill as the trout that approaches the bait, for he is 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



77 



as easily frightened away. He needs a sympathetic 
helping hand across the stepping-stones of an un- 
tried stream. The range of books is vast. The new 
reader needs not only books, but a friend. A coun- 
try boy, who has never seen the city, dropped at 
night in the Grand Central station of New York may 
have skill and self-reliance enough to find his way 
safely, but he is infinitely better off if a friend meets 
him. In our best large libraries the reference and 
children's librarians perform these functions, for the 
constituency is large enough to justify the expense. 
How are we to give at practical cost similar help to 
these scattered readers in rural homes who need it 
even more? Obviously no one small community 
can afford to pay for the whole time of a competent 
guide to books and reading. 

The itinerant principle offers a solution. The 
travelling book must be supplemented by the trav- 
elling librarian, who can give a day or two each 
week or month to the locality too small to afford his 
entire time. The economic principle is sound. Hun- 
dreds of thousands of commercial travellers prove 
that business men find the itinerant principle the 
cheapest and best way to get their wares into com- 
munities too small to support a permanent store or 
agent. The missionary who has seven stations to 
each of which he gives one day a week, the judge 
who moves from point to point to hold his court, the 
orchestra or company who give only one or more 
entei-tainments in places too small to support a per- 
manent organization, illustrate the universal appli- 
cation of the principle which we must adopt in order 
to get best results at least cost. 

The commercial traveller does his best work only 
when he can carry Ms samples with him. People 
need object lessons. The travelling librarian must 
have with him a considerable collection of books 
for his house-to-house and individual work. He can 
do much good by gathering those interested in 
schoolhouses or churches for an evening talk, stimu- 
lating interest and good resolutions and giving help- 
ful suggestions ; but when he sits down with the 
family or an individual to talk about personal read- 
ing he must have open before him some of the books 
for which he is trying to create an appetite. As 
these are too heavy to carry about by hand, we must 
have a book wagon with horses or motor, holding 
perhaps a thousand volumes carefully selected for 
this peculiar work. With this equipment the man 
or woman with a genius for the work has a rare 
opportunity for usefidness. If it suggests the re- 
ligious colporteur distributing books and tracts, we 
must remember that only religious and educational 
work has ever moved deeply the human heart to 
missionary effort, and the work of which we are 
talking belongs clearly to this class. The book 
wagon would have its regular route, repeating its 
visit at intervals of perhaps two or more weeks. 
This book missionary would come to know his 
constituency as a pastor knows his people. He 
would learn natural abilities and tastes, and would 
become skilful in developing latent interests and 



leading promising readers steadily on to higher and 
better things. K on any trip he did not have in 
his wagon just the book wanted, he could record the 
need and bring the book next time from the central 
library from which his routes would radiate. He 
would invite his readers to visit the central library 
whenever they went to town and to feel free to ask 
for help in person or by letter. 

All would know that there was no commercial 
interest behind the work, and would feel confidence 
in asking gxiidance when they wished to buy books 
of their own. A book owned is much better than a 
book loaned. If the travelling librarian can in- 
duce his readers to apply their money to buying 
good books he will have done an educational work 
of incalculable value. To assist in this, endowments 
or gifts should pay necessary expenses of adminis- 
tration, so that any reader may have brought to him 
at wholesale cost any book among those it is espe- 
cially desirable to distribute. It is pathetic to see 
how books manufactured simply to sell are scattered 
through rural homes. People impressed with the 
value of good reading give their hard-earned money 
to clever agents who charge them high prices for 
books which ought to go to the paper-mill and not 
on the book shelf. The best way to cure this evil 
is not by declaiming against it, but by giving people 
the best books at cost instead of these poor books at 
high prices. The distribution of trash will stop as 
soon as it is unprofitable, for it is done only from 
pecuniary motives. 

No one who fully appreciates the great influence 
of books and reading can doubt that the money 
required to equip such a book wagon and to pay 
the salary of such a travelling librarian would 
yield very large educational dividends. The wagon, 
horses, and harness would cost about SIOOO, and 
the thousand suitable volumes would cost as much 
more. If as many books were in the hands of readers 
as in the wagon, so that while changing the books 
from house to house the wagon continued substan- 
tially full, the stock would be perhaps two thousand 
volumes. This investment would mean about $3000, 
besides the salary and travelling expenses. This 
latter item would be small, for farmhouses would 
compete with each other for the privilege of keep- 
ing the wagon over night and having extra op- 
portunity to examine its resources. A man worth 
S3000 a year could use his time to good advantage 
in this way. There are men of real ability so deeply 
interested in the work that they would do it for much 
less if necessary. Age, experience, and other elements 
would determine the necessary salary, but it would be 
perhaps a moderate estimate to allow S3000 for the 
equipment of the wagon and S2000 a year for salary 
and expenses. When I first proposed this new work 
some five years ago the term " field libraries " 
seemed well suited to desig^te the idea. Admirable 
opportunities, with cooperation and needed super- 
vision, await the first gifts for launching this very 
practical enlargement of the itinerant principle. 

Melvil Dewey. 



78 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 1, 



COMMUNICA TIONS. 



SOME BIBLIOGRAPHIC NEEDS AND 

POSSIBILITIES. 

(To the Editor of The Dial.) 

When Lawyer Pleydell compared Dominie Samp- 
son's mind to a pawnbroker's shop stowed with all 
kinds of goods, which, however, were piled in utter 
confusion, he supplied a simile that is not altogether 
inapplicable to the world's store of knowledge at the 
present day. There is this distinction, however, that 
the latter case is not hopeless, for an effective remedy 
lies close at hand. During past centuries, various at- 
tempts have been made, more or less successfully, to 
classify all literature imder specific as well as general 
heads. It may well be asked if the science of bibli- 
ography did not exist, at least in crude form, long be- 
fore the invention of the printing press, for we are told 
that the clay tablets recently discovered in the library 
of the palace of Assur-bani-pal, at Nineveh, were duly 
arranged in accordance with the subjects to which they 
related. 

Bibliographers of the past, like pioneers, have assisted 
in the advance of civilization, but of the modern bibli- 
ographer and skilful prospector increased demands are 
made, for it suffices not that they should submit merely 
a skeleton outline of things examined. Many pertinent 
notes must accompany their respective reports, because 
upon their accuracy and comprehensiveness rests the 
subsequent investment of valuable time and precious 
energies. Even Prescott's " Conquest of Mexico," not- 
withstanding the original researches made by its accom- 
plished aiithor, would possess much less charm except 
for the labors of his predecessors in the same field. 

The bibliographer, however, is likely also to be a 
bibliophile, and the loves of the latter may sometimes 
conflict with the most useful work of the former. The 
American point of view, being essentially practical, in- 
sists that he was right who said: "The only useful 
knowledge is the knowledge that is of use." Logically, 
therefore, the most useful knowledge is the knowledge 
that is of most tise. The Library of Congress, in its 
bibliographic and other departments, obviously takes 
this view of the matter, and endeavors to supply the 
people's wants and to anticipate their needs. Consider, 
for example, the timeliness of one of its recent issues, 
a " List of References on Primary Elections." Here is 
a good illustration of what can be accomplished, bibli- 
ographically, by a watchful observation of the trend of 
public affairs. 

The State Library School at Albany, and some other 
similar institutions, make the presentation of an original 
bibliography compulsory as a condition of graduation. 
Some of these compilations find their way into print, and 
others are preserved in manuscript form. The com- 
pilation of special bibliographies of subjects of vital and 
current interest or permanent usefulness, seems really 
to constitute one of the most important phases of the 
work yet to be performed. There is now an imcomited 
number of such monographs in print, and the list is being 
augmented daily. To centralize this work, to establish 
a kind of bibliographic clearing-house, in America, is 
the step, a very essential one, that is most naturally 
next in order. How soon this step can be taken depends 
wholly upon the generosity of intelligent, representative 
citizens having the requisite means. 

It is problematical how much longer the Smithsonian 



Institution can consent to act as a regional bureau, in the 
collection and preparation of material for the " Inter- 
national Catalogue of Scientific Literature " published 
by the Royal Society of London, for the International 
Council. The time will come, and that, perhaps, quickly, 
when it will be absolutely necessary to establish an 
American bureau of bibliography upon which will at 
once devolve many important tasks. Among needed 
imdertakings that have been suggested are an interna^ 
tional catalogue of technological literature, which would 
prove of great interest and use in the United States, 
and a new bibliography of bibliographies. The latter, 
one of the projects informally considered by the Bibli- 
ographical Society of America as stated in a very 
interesting note by President Lane, should prove to be 
the crowning work of bibliography, a veritable index to 
indexes, a kind of starting point for all serious investi- 
gations thenceforth. The general summing up of 
knowledge and the saving of time that such an index 
woidd insure, are elements too important to escape the 
attention of thinking people. 

In 1904, there appeared from the George Washington 
University of Washington, D. C, an announcement by 
President Needham of the proposed establishment of a 
department of bibliography and library science, as soon 
as negotiations could be completed having in view an 
endowment of two hmidred thousand dollars, with 
which to start the work. This evident appreciation of 
the value of bibliographic research in the United States 
wUl not pass unheeded. The large libraries of many 
American cities offer a wonderful field for study, but 
what can compete with the facilities that are so accessi- 
ble at our national capital? Students residing in the 
city of Washington would have advantages not else- 
where obtainable. The George Washington University 
has by its proposition given a typical example of the 
spirit of modern American imiversity management. 
Conformable to that spirit, one may safely expect pro- 
ductive work, consisting of many invaluable contribu- 
tions to bibliography, to issue from the collective labors 
of the department when inaugurated. There is no 
question about the potential energy of a great body of 
enthusiastic students, and of their positive power under 
guidance. They will quickly seize the opportunity thus 
afforded for the performance of useful work, in the 
natural course of study, and the ultimate results will 
imdoubtedly be far beyond present estimation. Whether 
or not other educational institutions will add biblio- 
graphic research to their curriculum remains to be seen. 
The field, which is extremely comprehensive, might 
very wisely be approached inter-collegiately. It cannot 
be thus approached too soon. The existence of a cen- 
tral bureau of bibliography woidd facilitate inter- 
commmiication between investigators and the exchange 
of data relating to monographs wanted or in prepara- 
tion; all which would redound to the advancement of 
knowledge and good citizenship. 

The subject of cooperative cataloguing has proved to 
be of widespread interest, in evidence of which fact 
one needs only considt the pamphlet, issued by the 
Library of Congress, entitled " Bibliography of Co- 
operative Cataloguing," by Messrs. Torstein Jahi" and 
Adam Julius Strohm. An examination of this valuable 
collection, comprising 366 titles, is a necessary prelude 
to any serious study of the problem, which, as intimated 
above, is not without a solution. The difficidty is not so 
much to find a solution that will answer requirements 
fairly well, as to extract the best from all the plans 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



79 



severally suggested, and finally to put the whole scheme 
into operation. Unrestricted cooperative cataloguing 
and universal or international bibliography are subjects 
that must necessarily be very closely related. It ap- 
pears to the writer that among the chief works, perhaps 
the chief work, to be undertaken by a central bureau of 
bibliography, woxdd be the compilation of a new bibli- 
ography of bibliographies, as mentioned above. To 
avoid frequent revision, it should be supplemented 
periodically by notices of additional bibliographies pub- 
lished subsequently or which may have been overiooked 
in previous collections. This problem, from an English 
standpoint, seems very nearly to have been solved by 
Courtney's " Register of National Bibliography," re- 
cently published. 

Bibliographies need not be, and ought not to be, con- 
fined to works in the compiler's mother-tongue. At 
least a fair working knowledge of other modem lan- 
guages is possessed by many who consult such works, 
and it may be observed in passing that the acquisition 
of an ability to comprehend printed German, French, 
Latin, Spanish, or Italian, offers no insurmountable 
obstacles to the American student, if he is blessed with 
any leisure moments to devote to such fascinating 
study. 

Pure science is naturally one of the most attractive 
fields of bibliographic research; while science, in its 
broadest meaning, well-nigh covers the entire realm of 
knowledge, including history. There is much that can 
be done in the collection of authorities on the local his- 
tory of American states, territories, counties, cities, and 
towns. These subjects of growing importance and 
interest merit the close attention of individual inves- 
tigators, of whose monographs, deposited in local 
libraries, facsimiles should be transmitted to the Library 
of Cong^ss for the benefit of a wider circle of students. 
These facsimiles might consist of ordinary (typewritten) 
carbon copies, though the " black print," or " vandyke," 
process furnishes a means of duplicating original manu- 
scripts very cheaply and acceptably. The publication 
of a bulletin by the Library of Congress (proposed in 
the "Library Journal," 30: 858) to report special bib- 
liographies needed or in preparation, woidd bring inves- 
tigators in touch with each other. It would do more, 
for such a bulletin would form a practical basis for 
cooperation. Eugexe Fairfield McPike. 

Chicago, January 20, 1906. 



MR. SWIXBLTiNE AS "A LO^T: POET." 
(To the Editor of The Dlvl. i 

The communication of Professor Pancoast, published 
in The Dial of January 16, commands the respect of 
all who know how eminently he is qualified to discuss 
a question of comparative poetics, and it is to be hoped 
that the points which he raises against Air. Swinburne's 
matter, as opposed to his manner, may be met temper- 
ately and without recrimination, as he suggests. 

Meanwhile, it seems to me that Professor Pancoast's 
argument is weakened by reference to Emerson, Words- 
worth, and Browning. Mr. Swinburne is essentially and 
avowedly " a love poet," and it is because of his supreme 
mastery of verbal melody that he excels all others in the 
virid and compact expression of erotic emotion. Now, 
while I have profound reverence for the names of both 
Emerson and Wordsworth, I should like to remark that 
if there could be anything funnier than Emerson's essay 
on love it would be an erotic poem by Wordsworth. But 



when did Wordsworth ever write a love poem ? Pro- 
fessor Pancoast speaks of his doing so "at rare mo- 
ments." Will he not tell us when these moments were ? 

The reference to Browning strikes me as imfortunate 
becaiLse Professor Pancoast cites him as one who writes 
of love as a " high-minded gentleman," and not (like 
]^Ir. Swinburne) as " a delirious pagan." Surely if a 
breaking down of conventions is to be taken into the 
count. Browning can give Mr. Swinburne aces and 
spades, for he not only makes love the supreme law of 
life, but brands as sin the usually accepted ethical rules 
established for its control {vide "The Statue and the 
Bust"). 

It is hardly fair to confuse the sex motive, avowedly 
at the basis of the work of both Browning and Mr. 
Swinburne, with that lofty intellectual passion which 
characterizes the poetry of some of the other writers 
whom Professor Pancoast names. Neither does it seem 
quite fair to refer to some of the most exquisite pieces 
of metrical idealism in the language as " so-called love 
P***™^- Francis Howard Whxiams. 

Philadelphia^ January IS, 1906. 



Is the February number of " The Printing Art " Mr. 
Lindsay Swift has some well-considered remarks on the 
"Atrocities of Color Supplements " (as issued by our Sim- 
day newspapers) which deserve a much wider and more 
general audience than the constituency of the excellent 
periodical in which they appear. Mr. Swift's arraign- 
ment of this distinctively American nuisance is based on 
both ethical and artistic grounds. We should like to 
quote the entire article, but can find room only for a 
small portion. " It is impossible to describe the vul- 
garity and insanity of their drawing and coloring; and it 
cannot be that the editors, who must be men of some 
ability, however devoid of scruples, approve of their 
own mischievous work. Even the newest of the rich dis- 
play some personal taste in their belongings and adorn- 
ments, and even editors may have artistic consciences. 
Their answer to criticism against their methods inva- 
riably is: The public will and therefore must have what 
it wants. I am not so sure about that. The public 
visits beautiful museums and libraries and seems to enjoy 
them; it goes to churches where good music may be 
heard; it will support a decent play and condemn a 
nasty one. But it can be debauched and can have its 
dawning sensibilities for art or anything else that is 
worth while blighted; and there is no debauchery or 
blight, outside the domain of obvious immorality, more 
deadening to the public than this continually thrusting 
everything that is sordid, vulgar, and belittling before 
its uncultured but curious eyes. ... It would not be 
so bad if these wretched perversions of so innocent and 
helpful a relish to life as the comic reached only persons 
of mature life. Even readers whose time is so valueless 
that they can afford to waste more than a glance at a 
Sunday paper must realize how worthless pictures of 
this sort really are. It is the children who suffer, for 
they absorb unconsciously the unsavory quality of such 
efforts to amuse, and are thus the involuntary victims 
of voluntary and responsible corruptionists. At a time 
when this country is seriously trying to implant a knowl- 
edge of and stimulate a taste for better tlungs, artistic 
and aesthetic, through exhibitions in museums, libraries, 
and even in Sunday schools, it is not a little disheart- 
ening to realize that every step in this direction gets a 
weekly setback through these colored atrocities." 



80 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 1, 



C^^ ittto g00Ks. 



A Biography of Carl,yl,e's 
Biographer.* 



" II n'y a rien qui s'arrange aussi facilement 
que les faits," says Talleyrand, and, curiously 
enough, the remark is quoted with approval by 
Froude. Whether it is also a favorite quota- 
tion of his biographer, Mr. Herbert Paul, is a 
matter of conjecture. Without asserting that 
his Life of Froude exemplifies the facility of 
arranging facts to the best advantage, it is cer- 
tainly true that the book is highly eulogistic ; 
but what good biography is not ? If the biogra- 
pher is not in hearty sympathy with his subject, 
what zest can the reader bring to the perusal of 
his book? And surely Froude has been bit- 
terly enough and often enough assailed as a 
wilful perverter of facts to deserve a handsome 
presentation of the case by counsel for the de- 
fence. As a Lincoln's Inn barrister and a lit- 
terateur of proved ability, Mr. Paul appears to 
be exactly the man for the task to which he has 
put his hand. It is true, he claims to have had 
no personal acquaintance with the historian; 
near the end of his book he describes his " one 
and only experience of Froude and his ways," 
which was confined to the overhearing of an 
after-dinner talk ; but he may be all the more 
trustworthy in his account of the man for not 
having experienced more intimately the charm 
that so many of Froude's friends found in the 
historian's personality. 

Three of the eleven chapters into which the 
author divides his book are especially note- 
worthy. In his first he presents a picture of the 
motherless boy's harsh upbringing that will be 
new to most readers. In his fifth he gives a de- 
tailed and amusing account of Freeman's fren- 
zied assaults on his commendably unretaliatory 
brother historian, which it is hard to read with- 
out taking sides against the aggressor and his 
" ferocious pedantry," as Matthew Arnold hap- 
pily styled it. His eighth chapter deals with 
the relations between Froude and Carlyle, and 
reviews briefly, and without violating good taste, 
the alleged indiscretions of Carlyle's biographer. 
Of course Froude is vigorously defended, and 
even the most hostile reader cannot but be im- 
pressed with the difficulties and embarrassments 
that beset the unfortimate literary executor. 
Other chapters, perhaps equally interesting, 
describe Froude's student life at Oxford, his 

* The Life of Froude. By Herbert Paul. With portraits. 
New York : Charles Scribner's Sons. 



twenty years of labor on his History, his visit 
to this country and his lectures here on Ireland, 
his South African experiences, and his Oxford 
professorship, to which he was appointed as 
Freeman's successor. 

Turning back now to the first chapter, we 
find the author acknowledging himself, both as 
writer and as reader, no friend to genealogical 
details. So far so good ; but his contention that 
" few indeed are the families which contain more 
than one remarkable figure " might easily be 
met by a very respectable array of refutatory 
instances. Blood will tell, to some extent. How- 
ever, Froude's ancestry needs no apologies, 
although one may gladly enough begin with the 
subject proper of the book. Besides losing his 
mother (Margaret Spedding) in early childhood, 
and having an unsympathetic father in the Arch- 
deacon of Totnes, little Anthony was subjected 
to a peculiar discipline at the hands of his older 
brother Hurrell, whom nevertheless he wor- 
shipped as " a born leader of men." The fol- 
lowing passage has a certain significance : 

" Conceiving that the chiM wanted spirit, Hurrell once 
took him up by the heels, and stirred with his head the 
mud at the bottom of a stream. Another time he threw 
him into deep water out of a boat to make him manly. 
But he was not stitisfied by inspiring physical terror. 
Invoking the aid of the praeternatural, he taught his 
brother that the hollow behmd the house was haunted 
by a monstrous and malevolent phantom, to which, in the 
plentitude of his imagination, he gave the name of Pen- 
ingre. Gradually the child discovered that Peningre 
was an illusion, and began to suspect that other ideas of 
Hurrell's might be illusions too. Superstition is the 
parent of scepticism from the cradle to the grave. At 
the same time his own facvdty of invention was rather 
stimulated than repressed. He was encouraged in tell- 
ing, as children will, imaginative stories of things which 
never occurred." 

The ill usage and want of sympathy experi- 
enced by the boy as pupU at Westminster, and 
also in the succeeding three years of home life, 
until his entrance at Oxford, might well have 
had a permanent and blighting influence on 
his character. 

"Unhappily, in spite of the head master's remon- 
strances, Froude's father, who had spent a great deal 
of money on his other sons' education, insisted on placing 
him in college, which was then far too rough for a 
boy of his age and strength. On account of what he 
had read, rather than what he liad learnt, at Buckfast- 
leigh, he took a very high place, and was put with boys 
far older than himself. The fagging was excessively 
severe. The bullying was gross and unchecked. The 
sanitary accommodation was abominable. The language 
of the dormitory was indecent and profane. Froude, 
whose health prevented him from the effective use of 
nature's weapons, was woke by the hot points of cigars 
burning holes in his face, made drimk by being forced 
to swallow brandy pimch, and repeatedly thrashed. He 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



81 



was also more than half starved, because the big fellows 
had the pick of the joints at dinner, and left the small 
fellows little besides the bone. . . . Public schools had 
not yet felt the influence of Arnold and of the reform- 
ing spirit. Head masters considered domestic details 
beneath them, and parents, if they felt any responsibility 
at ail, persuaded themselves that boys were all the bet- 
ter for roughing it as a preparation for the discipline of 
the world- The case of Fronde, however, was a pecu- 
liarly bad one. He was suffering from hernia, and the 
treatment might well have killed him." 

Mr. Paul's admiration of Froude as historian 
is enthusiastic. " He was not a chronicler," he 
admits, " but an artist, a moralist, and a man of 
genius." And further, ''A paste-pot, a pair of 
scissors, the mechanical precision of a copying 
clerk, are all usefid in their way ; hut they no 
more make an historian than a cowl makes a 
monk." With a relish that it is difficult for the 
reader not to share, the biographer points out 
some rather surprising errors in Freeman's ac- 
rimonious criticism of the man whom he chose 
so bitterly to revile under the shelter of anon- 
ymity. The style of his criticism Ls familiar 
to readers of the Review in which it appeared 
as the successive volumes of Froude's History 
were published. Freeman's professing of no ill- 
will, "only a strong sense of amusement in 
bowling down one thing after another," re- 
ceives a curious comment in the marginal notes 
to his copy of the work criticised. It may 
furnish amusement to quote a few of these from 
Mr. Paul's pages. " Beast I " is one entry, 
" Bah ! " another. " May I live to embowel 
James Anthony Froude ! " is a third fervent 
interjection. " Froude is certainly the molest 
brute that ever wrote a book," is still another 
mode of expressing' this " strong sense of amuse- 
ment. " Such revelations of temjjer hardly 
betoken the dispassionate calm of authoritative 
criticism. The whole story of this paper warfare 
— a warfare in which, except for Froude's late- 
appearing and admirably temperate rejoinder 
entitled " A few words on Mr. Freeman," the 
hostilities were almost all on one side — serves 
to illustrate anew how weak is the cause that 
consents to employ the aid of sarcasm, innuendo, 
superciliousness, or even the milder forms of 
imperfect courtesy and half-candor that lie so 
perilously ready to the hand of critic or editor. 
The disingenuousness that may lurk even in the 
apparently innocent " we fear," or " we hope," or 
" we trust," of one who argues for victory more 
than for truth, is a matter of daily illustration. 

It has long been charged against Froude that 
in writing his History he made but the most 
cursory examination of valuable papers placed 
at his disposal at Hatfield. Perhaps the follow- 



ing letter to Lady Salisbury will be illuminating : 

" If Lord Salisbury has not repented of his kind 
promise to me, I shall in a few weeks be in a condition 
to avail myself of it, and I write to ask you whether 
about the beginning of next month I may be permitted 
to examine the papers at Hatfield. I am unwilling to 
trouble Lord Salisbury more than necessary. I have 
therefore examined every other collection within my 
reach first, that I might know clearly what I wanted. 
Obliged as I am to confine myself for the present to 
the first ten years of Elizabeth's reign, there will not be 
much which I shall have to examine there, the great 
bidk of Lord Burleigh's papers for that time being in 
the Record Office — but if I can be allowed a few days* 
work, I believe I can turn them to good account." 

Furthermore, to those who allege that Froude 
wrote without sufficient preliminary reading of 
authorities, Mr. Paid declares that he " neg- 
lected no source of information, and spared 
himself no pains in pursuit of it. At the 
Record Office, in the British Museum, at Hat- 
field, among the priceless archives preserved in 
the Spanish village of Simancas, he toiled with 
unquenchable ardour and unrelenting assiduity. 
Nine-tenths of his authorities were in manu- 
script. They were in five languages. They 
filled nine hundred volumes." The hand- 
writing, too, was often well-nigh illegible. All 
of Froude's voluminous transcripts from the 
Simancas papers he is said to have deposited in 
the British Museum, as a sort of public check 
on his own fidelity in dealing with the sources 
of his narrative. 

The chapter entitied •• Froude and Carlyle " 
reveals a decidedly tangled state of affairs as 
existing after Carlyle's death, in the matter of 
his piles of papers and his probable desire as 
to their ultimate disposition. Pathetic is poor 
Froude's plaint in a letter to ]Max MiiUer, in the 
midst of all his troubles as literary executor. 
" What have I done," he asks, " that I should 
be in such a strait ? But I am sixty-four years 
old, and I shall soon be beyond it ^." Unless 
we hold the stem doctrine of James Mill, that 
only acts and not motives are proper subjects 
for judgment, it is impossible to refuse some 
measure of condonation to a well-intentioned 
offender. To know all is to pardon all, and 
when we once recognize in Froude the streak of 
literary freakishness that was peculiar to his 
genius, it is scarcely in human nature to be 
severe with him — except that one must always 
censure anything that looks like wilful perver- 
sion of truth, or weak surrender to prejudice. 
The romancer gets the better of the historian 
in his case ; he has, in short, the defects of his 
qualities, and without those defects he would not 
have charmed precisely as he did his thousands 



82 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 1, 



of readers, or produced a biography that, with 
all its favdts, has a fascination approaching even 
that of Boswell's masterpiece. Yet this mnst 
not be taken as a whitewashing of Froude, or as 
excusing lenity on a biogi'apher's part toward 
notorious swervings from the straight line of 
truth. 

Attempting to refute a familiar charge against 
Carlyle, Mr. Paul writes : " Nothing annoyed 
Carlyle more than to be told that he confounded 
might with right. He declared that, on the 
contrary, he had never said, and would never 
say, a word for power which was not founded 
on justice." This is rather amusing. Of course 
Carlyle was annoyed. What man of sense and 
humanity would consciously uphold the mon- 
strous doctrine that might makes right ? Nev- 
ertheless a predisposition to discover right 
pretty uniformly on the side of might may be 
so ingrained in a man's nature that he cannot 
suspect its presence any more than he can look 
into his own eyes. As Martineau long ago well 
expressed it, for Carlyle, " as for so many gifted 
and ungifted men, the force which will not be 
stopped by any restraint on its way to great 
achievement, — the genius which claims to be 
its own law, and will confess nothing diviner 
than itseK, — have an irresistible fascination. 
His eye, overlooking the landscape of humanity, 
always runs up to the brilliant peaks of power : 
not, indeed, without a glance of love and pity 
into many a retreat of quiet goodness that lies 
safe beneath their shelter ; but shoidd the sud- 
den lightning, or the seasonal melting of the 
world's ice-barriers, bring down a ruin on that 
green and feeble life, his voice, after one faint 
cry of pathos, joins in with the thimder and 
shouts with the triumph of the avalanche. Ever 
watching the strife of the great forces of the 
universe, he, no doubt, sides on the whole 
against the Titans with the gods : but if the 
Titans make a happy fling, and send home a 
mountain or two to the very beard of Zeus, he 
gets delighted with the game on any terms and 
cries, ' Bravo ! ' " 

If lives of men of letters are, to many read- 
ers, too often but dreary reading, it is a com- 
plaint that cannot be brought against Mr. Paul's 
life of Froude. Whether it be that his sym- 
pathy with his subject has imparted to him 
something of Froude's own consummate art as 
a literary craftsman, certain it is that he has 
produced a very readable account of one whom 
Sir John Skelton enthusiastically described as 
" the most interesting man I have ever known." 

Percy F. Bicknell. 



Some Current Railway-Rate 

DlS CTTSSI OX.* 

The railroad-rate question is apparently faring 
distinctly better than did the monetary problem 
in one respect at least. This is that the atten- 
tion of careful investigators as well as of the 
general public was attracted to the subject prior 
to the time when it became an acute public 
issue. Enough had already been written, before 
the problem of government control of railway- 
rates became prominent in the public mind, to 
provide a body of material upon which investi- 
gators could fall back, and to furnish, what was 
even more important, a fund of experience in 
the inquiry indicating the points at which fm*- 
ther study and analysis was desirable. It has 
thus been possible, when the necessity came, for 
trained investigators to continue the preparation 
of information as to railway rates for use by 
legislators and by the public. On the other 
hand, it remains true that much of the study 
that has been devoted to the railroad problem, 
during the past few years, lias either rim along 
special lines or has been hidden in public docu- 
ments and court decisions. A real service both 
to the semi-technical world and to the general 
public, therefore, is performed by those who are 
prepared to gather up the results thus made 
ready for assunilation. 

Since President Hadley's book on American 
raih'oad transportation, fragmentary and incom- 
plete as it was, which attracted so much atten- 
tion some years ago, there has been relatively 
little in the way of comprehensive study of this 
question. The appearance of a group of studies, 
chief among which may be mentioned Professor 
Johnson's valuable book of a year or two ago, 
was the beginning of a series of volumes which 
have now provided a body of literature for the 
enlightenment of that part of the reading public 
which wishes to inform itself upon serious ques- 
tions of current import. Merely to give a list 
of the titles of the books that shoidd be included 
in the group here described would be a consid- 
erable task ; but the publication within a few 
weeks of one another of books as usefid as 
Professor Meyers's " Government Regtdation of 
Railway Rates," Judge Noyes's " American 
Railroad Rates " and Mr. Haines's " Restric- 
tive Railway Legislation " is itself notable. 
Here we liave three voliunes, one by an 
academic student of the question, one by a 
jurist and railway president, and one by a civil 

♦American Railroad Rates. By Walter Chad wick Noyes. 
Boston: Little, Brown, & Co. 

Restrictive Railway Legislation. By Henry S. Haines. 
New York : The Macmillan Co. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



83 



engineer and practical railroad manager. It is 
interesting to note that in certain respects these 
volumes, while they do not cover the same 
ground, come to similar conclusions. Professor 
Meyers's book, already very fully discussed else- 
where, need not be further considered here. It 
stands in a somewhat different class from the 
two companion volumes, both because of its 
broader scope, the smaller practical experience 
of its author, and his greater dogmatism. The 
work of Judge Xoyes and ^Ir. Haines represents 
the ideas of the sane and conservative railway 
men of the eoimtry. As such, these two vol- 
umes are entitled to exceptionally close study 
not only because they embody the residt of actual 
experience, but because they evidently voice the 
ideas of those who know how legislation woidd 
affect a great industry. 

Of the two books, the broader, as the title 
denotes, is that of Air. Haines, the more inten- 
sive and special is that of Judge Noyes. Both, 
however, have their main centre of interest, at 
least at the present time, in the question of how 
far government control of railroad-rates can be 
reaUy successfid. 

Judge Noyes gives a lengthy and most care- 
ful study of the way in which rates grow up, of 
their limitations, and of the questions relating to 
classification and changes in rates. He points 
out clearly what conditions give rise to discrimi- 
nation, and analyzes the effect of the so-called 
'•basing point "' system and similar plans. Just 
here, it is interesting to note Judge Noyes's 
general conclusion, vs-ith regard to discrimina- 
tion, that the state of affairs existing in 1898, 
when the Interstate Commerce Commission re- 
ported that a large part of the railroad business 
was done upon illegal rates, has now come to 
an end. Personal discrimination, thinks Judge 
Xoyes, is now practically over. He admits the 
continued existence of discrimination between 
localities, but believes that it is inevitable that 
some such differential rates shall exist. They 
restdt from the application of the "principle of 
value" in rate-making. The same ser^-ice may 
have a different value when rendered to different 
localities. When competition makes local dis- 
criminations necessary, they are justified by the 
value principle. As for discriminations between 
commodities, this is a problem of classification, 
and involves no hardship if what the author con- 
siders proper principles in rate-making are care- 
fully applied. The conditions that have brought 
about the present more satisfactory state of 
affairs as to personal discriminations, which, 
says the author, "are opposed to aU good busi- 



ness principles and are whoUy indefensible and 
vicious" are, according to Judge Noyes, four 
in number : (1) prosperity, (2) the Elkins law, 
(3) railroad consolidation, and (4) a belated 
realization of the injurious effect of discrimina- 
tions. Evidently the author did not have in 
mind the existence of the pass system, when 
these words were written, but referred only to 
freights. It may be observed that his opinions,^ 
as thus stated, are in substantial accord with 
those of the public officials in Washington who 
are charged with the duty of enforcing the rail- 
way legislation of the country. Continuing, he 
traces the effect of competition and combination, 
and shows how far rates vary and how far they 
are influenced by changes in equipment. 

3ilr. Haines naturally looks at the railroad 
question from the standpoint of an engineer 
and business man rather than from that of a 
lawyer or student. His chapters on railroad 
finance and railroad construction are enlighten- 
ing. He traces with some care the nature of 
the railroad charters that have been granted 
and the character of the restrictions by which it 
has been sought to regulate and control the 
growth of the great raUroad net of the United 
States. In this connection, it may be observed 
that two of the most important things connected 
with the growth of the railroad system have not 
been the subjects of much if any restrictive regu- 
lation or legislation. One of these two points is 
the gauge of the roads, which, says Mr. Haines, 
was made uniform by the railways, at their own 
instance, and at very substantial cost, while the 
other is the matter of route. The author's 
chapters on railroad operation and on railroad 
traffic are less satisfactory than those already 
referred to, yet they furnish a good and clear 
review of these topics. In revie\*Tng the growth 
of a system of rate-making, Mr. Haines adopts 
a historical method in part. In part, his treat- 
ment is analytical ; but, like Judge Noyes, he 
r^fards rates as the result of practical competi- 
tion. The rate-maker, he says, " does not origi- 
nate or create rates." In practice his rates are 
determined, as to reasonableness, by what the 
traffic will bear, and, where competition exists, 
by rival bidding for the busiaess. Discrimina- 
tion between places is regarded by Mr. Haines, 
and also by Judge Noyes, as to some extent a 
necessary incident. At times, it may become 
unjust or unreasonable, — primarily when more 
is chargetl for the short haul than for the long one 
in the same direction. Regulation of rates is 
first considered from a historical standpoint by 
Mr. Haines. He has a general chapter on the 



84 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 1, 



regulation of rates through pooling associations ; 
then one on the work of State railroad commis- 
sions, and then a chapter on pending legislation 
affecting interstate commerce. In Chapter XI. 
is given a theoretical discussion of " State con- 
trol of corporations engaged in a public service," 
and lastly a final treatment embodying some 
" Conclusions." The chapter in which Mr. 
Haines parallels Judge Noyes's discussion to 
some extent is that which deals with pending 
legislation. 

As already noted, the main present interest 
in both Mr. Haines's and Judge Noyes's work 
is in what they have to say of the present efforts 
at State control of rates and their theoretical 
bearing. In a careful constitutional discussion, 
Judge Noyes, as it seems to us, demonstrates 
the following ideas : The power of Congress and 
of the State legislatures is limited by the com- 
merce clause of the federal constitution and by 
the fourteenth amendment. The making of 
rates by law is purely a legislative function. 
The legislature may act either directly or through 
a commission or other administrative body. 
Three limitations, however, of special character 
apply in the case of Congress : (1) the division 
of the function of government into three depart- 
ments, (2) the fifth amendment, and (3) the 
provision against port preferences. The division 
of functions indicates that there must be no 
confusion of legislative, executive, and judicial 
functions, resulting from any act that Congress 
may pass. The fifth amendment provides that 
no private property shall be taken, without due 
process of law or without just compensation. 
The provision against port preferences makes it 
plain that no preference to the ports of any one 
State, resulting from the acts of Congress, will 
be held constitutional. The ultimate real test 
of the constitutionality of a law-made rate is, 
however, whether such rates are confiscatory. 
As a result of his reasoning along these lines, 
and of his application of them to existing legis- 
lation. Judge Noyes reaches the conclusion that 
existing remedies for unreasonable charges are 
ineffectual as far as they go, and do not go far 
enough ; while because of his view that the 
adjudication of the reasonableness of a rate is 
a judicial fimction, of the further opinion that 
judicial and legislative functions cannot be com- 
bined, and of the view that judicial functions 
can be exercised only by judges holding their 
offices during good behavior, he is led to think 
that most of our pending legislation, including 
the recent Esch-Townsend bUl, is impossible. 
The greater number of the measures now pro- 



posed require the exercise of judicial functions 
by the Interstate Conunerce Commission and the 
exercise of non-judicial functions by the courts. 
Judge Noyes's suggestion for legislation is the 
establishment of a special interstate commerce 
court which should ascertain whether or not a 
given rate is or is not unreasonable. In case a 
given rate were found unreasonable, this fact 
should be certified to the Interstate Commerce 
Commission, which shoidd then, on the basis of 
the papers in the case and without further 
hearing, make a maximum rate to take the 
place of the unreasonable rate. This new rate 
should remain in force for a specified time. 

While Mr. Haines does not go into any such 
complete analysis, or recommend any such de- 
tailed plan as does Judge Noyes, there is noth- 
ing in his treatment that is not in accordance 
with the latter's views. He does not believe in 
any quasi-judicial commission, nor does he seem- 
ingly believe that any general power for rate-mak- 
ing should be granted the Interstate Commerce 
Commission mider existing conditions. Should 
a rate-making power be accorded to it, however, 
" it shoidd be in fact a court of first instance," 
says Mr. Haines. It should act solely on com- 
plaints. It should never prosecute of its own 
motion. It should be strictly impartial. In this 
view of the case. Mr. Haines has evidently in 
mind somewhat the same thought as has Judge 
Noyes, — the creation of a real railroad court. 
He does not carry the idea further, and suggest 
the delegation of the rate-making function to 
some conunission as a separate and independent 
administrative body charged with the revision 
of given rates. But it is evident that this is an 
idea which — granting the interference of gov- 
ernment in rate-making as unavoidable — would 
be in harmony with the general tenor of his 
thought. These ideas as to railroad rate con- 
trol, therefore, with the reasoning which leads 
thereto, and with the abundant supply of in- 
formation upon allied topics which is provided 
in both books, are the chief contributions made 
to the pending discussion by two of the most 
careful of recent thinkers on railroad questions. 
H. Parker Willis. 



Of special interest in connection with the Franklin 
bicentennial anniversary this year is the annomicement 
from Messrs. Houghton, Mifflin & Co. that they have 
in preparation a notable limited edition of Franklin's 
Autobiography, to be printed under the direction of Mr. 
Bruce Rogers, and illustrated with famous portraits in 
photogravure. In style and excellence of typography 
and manufacture, the volume will resemble the edition 
of Cavendish's Life of Cardinal Wolsey recently issued 
by this house. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



85 



I 



A Defen^itive Goethe Biography.* 

Ten years ago German scholars published sev- 
eral notable biographies of Goethe, and others 
have since appeared. The single volume by 
Eichard M. Meyer, for example, is a preisge- 
Jcronte Arbeit, brief and at times trenchant in 
its critical estimates, a book for the student 
rather than the general reader. The needs of 
the latter were especially met in the two vol- 
umes by Heinemann, a readable and attractive 
account of the ix>et's life, environment, and 
works, and particularly valuable for the numer- 
ous pictures of places and people. Both these 
biographies appeared in the same year with the 
first volmne, and with the other works alluded 
to preceded the second volmne of Bielschow- 
sky's Goethe sein Leben und seine Werke. 
Each of these various works has merits of its 
own, but none has taken the place that Biel- 
schowsky's may fairly claim. Its importance, 
as the best biography of the poet that has 
appeared, is so generally acknowledged that a 
translation has been called for, and this is now 
supplied by Professor William A. Cooper of 
Stanford University. The English-reading pub- 
lic is thus papng to the lamented German 
scholar the compliment that the Germans paid 
many years ago to Mr. Lewes's " Life and 
Times of Goethe," and as their translation of 
that book was long their most popular a<?count 
of the poet's life, so Bielschowsky's book, by 
reason of its fuller and more accurate informa- 
tion, will now take the place in our libraries that 
Mr. Lewes's held so long. 

Bielschowsky based his work upon the rich 
material made accessible by the opening of the 
Goethe archives and b}- recent philological in- 
vestigation ; but as he designed it for the use 
of the \Nddest circles, he felt that the choice and 
selection of material was imperative. As he 
remarks in the preface to the first volmne, 
only details disclose the man and the poet, and 
the surest safeguard against error in the proper 
understanding of his works is afforded by ap- 
proaching them in relation to his life. This idea 
was further confirmed by his \aew of Goethe's 
character as t}"pically presenting an intensified 
picture of humanity. He therefore entered into 
a detailed study of the circumstances and influ- 
ences that formed the poet's character and con- 
trolled his career. He studied carefully all 
sources and exploited all new material ; but he 

•The Life of Goethe. By Albert Bielschowsky, Ph.D. 
Authorized translation from the German by WUliam A. Cooper, 
A.M. Volume I., 1749-1788., From Birth to the Return from 
Italy. Illustrated. New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons. 



wisely excluded from his text, and relegated to 
notes, all critical discussion of the statements 
made. His original intention was to make of 
these notes a continuous scientific discussion of 
the facts upon which his narrative is based, but 
considerations of space prevented this ; and, as 
they stand, the notes sometimes amplify, and 
sometimes merely state authorities, regarding 
mooted points. 

It must be evident, even to the casual reader, 
that Bielschowsky possessed unusual penetration 
and acumen in psychological analysis. He de- 
velops his story much as a good novelist might, 
and so reveals the growth of the poet's character 
in its various phases. In his critical estimates 
he uniformly leads up to the circumstances un- 
der which the work in question was produced ; 
and, in the case of the more important, he fol- 
lows this with a lucid and extremely sympathetic 
outline of its content. This is done in a way 
to hold the interest of the reader and to empha- 
size the central thought, and is followed by 
judicious criticism, either favorable or unfavor- 
able as the case may be. The treatment of 
Werther affords an admirable illustration. 
Goethe's experiences at Wetzlar, related in a 
previous chapter, prepare the way for an ac- 
count of his Lotte cult, of which the story is a 
poetic reflection. After outlining the plot, em- 
phasis is placed upon the point, so often unap- 
preciated, that everything in the story flows 
naturally from the character of the hero. The 
author further remarks the wealth of life de- 
picted, the firm though brief delineation of the 
various subordinate characters, and the wonder- 
ful naturalness and warmth that characterizes 
it, and concludes with an account of the effect 
of the story upon Goethe's contemporaries. 
Especially noteworthy in this whole treatment 
is the fact that the biographer makes his reader 
not simply comprehend but feel, as perfectly 
natural, the effect that Goethe's book produced ; 
he does not simply understand the situation, — 
he sympathizes with it. 

Bielschowsky's treatment of Goethe's atti- 
tude toward the War of Liberation is charac- 
teristic of the sympathetic and yet judicial way 
in which he deals with the poet's career. He 
makes clear the reasons why Goethe failed to 
respond to the enthusiasm against Napoleon by 
indicating his just appreciation of the political 
reforms brought about under French domina- 
tion, and the slight danger that he felt of any 
real loss of the essentially German spirit in 
education and literature. He also points out 
Goethe's idea of the effect of the Prussian or 



86 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 1, 



Austrian supremacy that would result from the 
overthrow of the French, — "an emancipation 
not from the yoke of the foreigners but from 
one foreign yoke," as he expressed it. " And 
yet," so the author concludes, "the experienced 
Goethe was wrong." He imderestimated the 
power of national feeling, and did not appreciate 
that the German spirit must always be alien to 
the French, and hence under their tutelage 
could not but faiL in the full development of its 
inner individuality. Political reasons based 
upon the position of the Duchy of Weimar also 
had weight in determining Goethe's conduct 
and, to some extent, his sympathies, so that his 
contemporaries were neither surprised, nor did 
they expect him to act differently. They also 
realized the permanent value of his work and 
its power as a national force ; there is, further, 
no lack of evidence that Goethe's attitude was 
not the result of indifference. Thus Biel- 
schowsky presents the poet's position and the 
influences that determined it, neither entirely 
commending nor wholly censuring, but stating 
it in the light of contemporary conditions, 
rather than from the standpoint of the special 
pleader holding a brief for or against the poet. 
The chapter on Goethe's Lyrics is one of the 
most valuable and suggestive in the work. The 
poet attributed much of his power to the influ- 
ence of Spinoza, whose conception of God, in- 
carnate in the world, involved the idea of the 
divine in all objects as necessary parts of the 
whole, but as more or less fidly manifested, in 
proportion as the object is moi'e or less com- 
pletely essential and enduring. But the essen- 
tial and permanent in Goethe was, Bielschowslcy 
argues, his nature as a poet, while that which 
was accidental and temporary found expression 
in the man of the world and of affairs. The 
poet saw as with "annointed eye" the ultimate 
truth in the contradictions and confusions of 
human life, while the man was often distracted 
and went astray. But it was in this very con- 
fusion and error that the poet often found the 
material that he treated as typical and symbolic, 
and thereby, as he said, corrected his conception 
of things. A long chapter on the various 
groups of lyrics foUows, tracing each poem, as 
far as possible, to the incident or experience 
that called it forth. Space forbids any detailed 
analysis ; rather the question suggests itseK 
whether the briUiant rhetorical discussion just 
outlined applies only to the poet's method. 
May it not suggest an explanation of the strange 
contradictions that the story of his life affords, — 
his calm serenity and generous nobility, his 



fickle passion and intense personal selfishness. 
Bielschowsky certainly does not think of it in 
this relation. He neither glosses faults nor faUs 
to teU the pain they caused. His attitude is in 
general one of cordial affection, that may dis- 
approve but is ready to forgive, but he offers 
no explanation of that subtle dual personality 
that any student of the poet must feel. 

The chapter on Faust also deserves special 
mention, but this is only partially the work of 
Bielschowsky. At the time of his death he had 
completed the account of the genesis of the 
poem ; the balance of the chapter was written 
by his friend, Professor Ziegler of Strassburg. 
In this portion the pages dealing with the clas- 
sical Walpurgisnacht and with Homunculus 
are especially to be commended. In their brief 
outline and frank censure of those elements in 
these scenes that are wholly without any real or 
fancied connection with Faust, far better ser- 
vice is rendered toward the proper miderstand- 
ing of the poem than in any attempt to justify 
or explain them. Common sense and poetic 
insight are happily blended, and without any 
attempt to make out a symbolism that it is more 
than doubtful the poet ever imagined. 

Professor Cooper's translation is, in general, 
a very satisfactory piece of work. He renders 
paragraph by paragraph, indeed sentence by sen- 
tence, excepting in one or two instances men- 
tioned in his preface. The language is usually 
well-chosen, and renders the thought, and in 
some degree the style, of the original. Occa- 
sionally a phrase or sentence smacks somewhat 
of the class-room, and a less literal rendering 
would have made the meaning clearer. For ex- 
ample, the phrase " becomes absorbed with her 
[Frau von Stein] in the bony structure of man," 
is an awkward way of saying " studied care- 
fidly the structure of the human skeleton." 
So " the irridescence of Merk's nature " (^Das 
Schillernde) hardly conveys to the English 
reader the idea of versatility which the context 
shows to be the author's thought. " The cor- 
roded [durchgeheizf] sons of the twentieth cen- 
tury" is literal and meaningless ; so also " the 
lapidary personality of Orange " is hardly clear. 
Other instances, especially in the literal render- 
ing of figurative language, might be cited. It is 
also to be regretted that the page headings of 
the original have not been preserved ; they cer- 
tainly facilitate the use of the book as a work 
of reference. On the whole, however, the few 
trifling faults, imnoticed except by the critic in 
quest of such material, are so far outweighed by 
the conspicuous merit of the work that it is 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



87 



hardly fair to mention them. It is sincerely 
to be hoped that the concluding volumes — the 
translation is to be in three rather than the two 
of the original — may not be long delayed. 
Lewis A. JRhoades. 



Keasox ry Religiox a>d ix Art.* 

Professor Santayana's two notable books on 
" The Life of Reason," which recently appeared, 
have been followed up promptly by two addi- 
tional volimies in the same series, which deal 
respectively vv-ith "• Reason in Religion " and 
'■'■ Reason in Ai't." This leaves impublished only 
the final volume, on " Reason in Science." Of 
the two latest volxmies, the one on " Reason in 
Religion " has the greater speculative interest, 
since it is in the problems of religion that the 
opposition cidminates between the general philo- 
sophical conception which Professor Santayana 
represents, and that which more commonly 
passes current. As readers of the earlier books 
will recall, " The Life of Reason " is constituted 
by that realm of ideal values in experience 
which, springing from the soil of the natural im- 
pulses and passions, has for its task the bringing 
of these to a seK-conscious and harmonious ex- 
pression. It is no part of its business to leave us 
with an accovmt of what reality is beyond our 
experience ; rather, its sole function is the praxj- 
tical one of miderstanding and accepting and 
using the situation in which a moi-tal may find 
himself. This, of couree, is valid equally of the 
religious exjjerience. For the author, therefore, 
religion is frankly conceived as poetry. It is a 
symbolic rendering of the moral experience, 
which has its value by reason of its power to 
vitalize the mind and transmit by way of par- 
ables the lessons of life. Accordingly^, as be- 
tween religions there is a difference only of better 
and worse, never of true and false. It is the 
root defect in religion — the tendency to forget 
that it is poetry, to arrogate to itself literal 
truth, and lay claim to be an objective state- 
ment of fact. In this way the myth, which was 
but a symbol substituted for empirical descrip- 
tions, becomes an idol substituted for ideal val- 
ues ; instead of a representation of experience 
as it shoidd be, it becomes a pretended infor- 
mation about experience or reality elsewhere. 
This always tends to confuse intelligence and 
dislocate sentiment. The essential harm of it is 
that by persuading man that the world really 

• The Life of Reason. By (Jeorge Santayana. New vol- 
umes: Reason in Religion, and Reason in Art. New York: 
Charles Scribner's Sons. 



is such as his rather arbitrary idealization has 
painted it, the true value of the ideal is lost. 
Moral harmonies are not given, they have to be 
made ; and the curse of superstition is that it 
justifies and protracts their absence by pro- 
claiming their invisible presence. Thus God, 
for practical religion, stands only for that which 
makes for the Good. A theodicy which attempts 
to extend the divine to the entire world, and to 
prove that whatever is is good, breaks down the 
very distinction which gives goodness and the 
divine their hvmMn meaning, and reduces every- 
thing to the dead level of an unmoral naturalism 
or pantheism. The whole difficulty again lies 
in the supposed need of turning a practical 
moral ideal into an accovmt of the objective 
constitution of the universe. It is chimerical 
to expect the rest of the world to be determined 
by that moral significance which by its very 
nature is in terms of particular himian interests. 
" The attempt to subserve the natural order 
xmder the moral is like attempts to establish a 
government of the parent by the child — some- 
thing: children are not averse to." So that 
religion ought to be for each man, not a literal 
accoimt of what is or has happened, but the 
imaginative expression of those ideals which are 
most vital to his own nature. Each man may 
have his own loves, but the object in each case 
is different. So it is, or should be, in religion. 
Literal truth is as irrelevant, as it is irrelevant 
to an artist's pleasure to be warned that the 
beauty he expresses has no objective existence. 
There is little space to consider the more par- 
ticular treatment from this general standpoint 
of religion in its historical expressions, though 
this contains much interesting matter. The 
earlier chapters take up the more primitive as- 
pects of the religious experience, such as magic, 
sacrifice, prayer, and mythology. Interesting 
also is the historical appreciation of Hebraism 
and of Christianity. The author's natural sym- 
pathy is ^nth the Greek rather than the Hebraic 
type of mind. Paganism seems to him nearer 
than Hebraism to the Life of Reason, from the 
fact that its myths are more transparent and its 
temper less fanatical ; and it is probable that 
there are elements in the Hebrew religion 
which he fails in consequence to give their just 
emphasis. It certainly is a question whether 
the religious position of the historical Jesus 
has the quite derivative and incidental signifi- 
cance which his generalizations — following a 
popidar interpretation — assign to it. Fully 
adequate or not, however, the analysis is acute 
enough and time enough to make very good read- 



88 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 1, 



ing. The characterization of the Protestant ele- 
ment in Christianity is particularly happy, in its 
opposition to the Oriental strain of unworldliness 
and asceticism with which it has entered into un- 
stable combination. Professor Santayana's vision 
is keen for the weaknesses of the Protestant and 
Teutonic temper, — its emphasis on the supreme 
importance of success and prosperity, its con- 
ventional conceptions of duty and earnest ma- 
terialism, its cheerful optimism, its regard for 
profitable enterprise and practical ambition as a 
sort of moral vocation, its tendency to mistake 
vitality, both in itself and in the luiiverse, for 
spiritual life. " The point is to accomplish 
something, no matter particularly what ; so that 
the Protestant shows on this ground some re- 
spect even for an artist when he has once 
achieved success." In the later chapters there 
follows an instructive analysis of the main as- 
pects of the religious life — piety or loyalty to 
the necessary conditions of life, spirituality or 
devotion to ideal ends, and charity ; and in con- 
clusion there is a discussion of the ideal in- 
terpretation of immortality. The chapter on 
" Spirituality and its Corruptions " — fanaticism 
and mysticism, namely — may be recommended 
as a particularly good expression of that whole 
temperamental attitude toward life which is 
summed up in " The Life of Reason." 

"Reason in Art" lends itself especially to 
quotation, and I can perhaps not do better than 
to put together as nearly as possible in the 
writer's own words some of the points which 
are particidarly characteristic. There are two 
main aspects to the book. On the one hand, it 
takes up the arts in particular, and, tracing 
them back to a purely automatic and spontane- 
ous expressiveness, without ideal value, it tries to 
show how they come to take on more and more an 
ideal and rational significance. The most no- 
table thing about the treatment, however, is less 
its suggestions in detail toward an historical 
understanding of the arts tlian the general crit- 
ical attitude which underlies the volume as a 
whole. It woidd be hard to point to a more 
searching criticism of the irrationalities that 
enter into the artistic and aesthetic side of ex- 
perience, or a more effective dealing with the 
conmion fallacies by which these irrationalities 
are not merely overlooked but are exalted into 
essential conditions of art and beauty. Starting 
from the definition of art as that element in the 
Life of Reason which consists in modifying its 
environment the better to attain its end, the 
book is a sustained argument against the view 
which would loosen the fine arts from this fun- 



damental connection with rational and — in the 
end — social and moral experience. The rose's 
grace can more easily be plucked from its petals 
than the beauty of art from its subject, reasons, 
and use. The fine arts are butter to man's 
daily bread ; there is no conceiving or creating 
them except as they spring out of social exi- 
gencies. Irresponsibility in the artist, the rest- 
ing content with the mere mystic glow of a per- 
sonal experience, must be fatal to a true and 
adequate art. To be bewitched is not to be 
saved, though all the magicians and aesthetes in 
the world should pronounce it so. The sponta- 
neous is the worst of tyrants, for it exercises a 
needless and fruitless tyranny in the guise of 
duty and inspiration. The earth's bowels are 
full of all sorts of rumblings ; which of the 
oracles drawn thence is true can be judged only 
by the light of day. If an artist's inspiration 
has been happy, it has been so because his work 
can sweeten or ennoble the mind, and because 
its total effect will be beneficent. Art being a 
part of life, the criticism of art is a part of 
morals. No personal talent avails to rescue an 
art from labored insignificance when it has no 
steadying function in the moral world, and must 
waver between caprice and convention. 

In form, then, art represents that which 
shoiUd be the goal of life — experience harmon- 
ized, seK-justifying, the revelation of an intrin- 
sic value. Beauty gives men the best hint of 
ultimate good which their experience as yet can 
offer. Its defect lies in the fact that hitherto 
it has been content with its minor harmonies, 
and, immersed in them, has failed of any large 
grasp on reality as a whole. And so long as it 
needs to be a dream, it can never cease to be a 
disappointment. Its facile cruelty, its narcotic 
abstraction, can never sweeten the evils we re- 
turn to at home ; it can liberate half the mind 
only by leaving the other half in abeyance. In 
the mere artist, too, there is always something 
that falls short of the gentleman and that de- 
feats the man. The poet, at home in the me- 
divmi, is, in the world he tries to render, apt to 
be a child and a stranger. Poetic apprehen- 
sion is a makeshift in so far as its cognitive 
worth is concerned ; it is exactly in this respect 
what myth is to science. The poetic way of 
idealizing reality is dull, bungling, and impure ; 
a better acquaintance with things renders such 
flatteries ridicidous. 

A consequence of this is that a large part of 
our art is artificial and simply made to be ex- 
hibited ; it is therefore gratuitous and sophisti- 
cated, and the greater part of men's concern 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



89 



with it is affectation. A living art does not 
produce curiosities to be collected, but spiritual 
necessities to be diffused. What we call mu- 
seums — mausoleums, rather, in which a dead 
art heaps up its remains — are those the places 
where the Muses intended to dwell ? An artist 
may visit a museimi, but only a pedant can live 
there. But there is possible an art more ade- 
quate to the Life of Reason. Such an art must 
be an achievement, not an indulgence. It will 
rise above the incidental dreams and immature 
idealizations of poetry as it now is, to a new 
and clarified poetry which, while having the 
power of prose to see things as they are and the 
courage to describe them ingenuously, shall also 
idealize in the true way, by selecting from this 
reality what is pertinent to lUtimate interests 
and can speak eloquently to the soul. Art, as 
mankind has hitherto practised it, too much 
resembles an opiate or a stimulant. It is a dream 
in which we lose ourselves by ignoring most of 
our interests, and from which we awake into a 
world in which that lost episode plays no further 
part and leaves no heirs. Life and history are 
not thereby rendered better in their principle, 
but a mere ideal is extracted out of them and 
presented for our delectation in some cheap 
material, like words or marble. The only 
precious materials are flesh and blood. The 
moments snatched for art have been generally 
interludes in life, and its products parasites in 
nature. To exalt fine art into a truly ideal 
activity, we shoidd have to knit it more closely 
with other rational functions, so that to beautify 
things might render them more usefid, and to 
represent them most imaginatively might be to 
see them in their tinith. To gloat on rhythms 
and declamations, to live last in imaginary pas- 
sions and histrionic woes, is an unmanly life, 
cut off from practical dominion and from ra- 
tional happiness. A lovely dream is an excel- 
lent thing in itself, but it leaves the world no 
less a chaos, and makes it by contrast seem even 
darker than it did. That beauty which should 
have been an inevitable smile on the face of 
society, an overflow of genuine happiness and 
power, has to be imported, stimidated artificially, 
and applied from without ; so that art becomes 
a sickly ornament for an ugly existence. True 
art is simply an adequate industry ; it arises 
when industry is carried out to the satisfaction 
of aU hmnan demands, even of those incidental 
sensuous demands which we call aesthetic, and 
which a brutal industry in its haste may despise 
or ignore. To distinguish and create beauty 
would then be no art relegated to a few ab- 



stracted spirits playing with casual fancies ; it 
would be a habit inseparable from practical 
efficiency. All operations, all affairs, would 
then be viewed in the light of ultimate interests 
and in their deep relation to hmnan good. The 
arts would thus recover their Homeric glory ; 
touching human fate as they clearly woidd, they 
would borrow something of its grandeur and 
pathos, and yet the interest that worked in 
them woidd be warm, since it wovdd remain 
unmistakably animal and sincere. 

A. K. ROGEES. 



Two Recext Books on Shakespeare.* 

However disastrous the triumph of Baconian- 
ism may prove to all Shakespearian biography 
and to much Shakespeariaji criticism, it will 
not cause such books as Professor Stephenson's 
on " Shakespeare's London " to depreciate in 
value. The London of " Shake-speare," the 
pseudonymous playwright, is also the London 
of '' Shaksper, the Stratford actor-manager." 
Wherefore, it behooves the scholar who would 
make a permanent contribution to the subject 
to be wise in time, and if he cannot yet go with 
the Baconians, at any rate not to exclude him- 
self from a share in their triumph. Professor 
Stephenson, however, has not been as wise as 
this ; while the substance of his book will be 
equally valuable, whichever way the future may 
decide the question, he himself gives too many 
indications of orthodoxy not to be liable to perse- 
cution when the heretics have their turn. And, 
to say the truth, the orthodox may look for 
scant quarter in that great day, for they have 
given none. 

We coiUd wish that Professor Stephenson's 
book might commend itself as certainly to the 
lover of good letters as to the lover of history. 
Its style is hardly worthy of its theme. While 
we are far from wishing to be captious, we can- 
not praise the following sentences as likely to 
do honor to American academic culture : " The 
plan familiar to us, from Bacon's essay Of 
Building, was followed by many of the Eli^- 
bethan bvulders, though lack of means to buUd, 
and room for the double court, in the London 
houses, often led to a considerable alteration" 
(p. 14) ; "A pair of draw-strings working oppo- 
site the small of the back enabled one to tighten 
or loosen his doublet at will " (p. 37). Such 

'Shakespbasb's LomxiN. By Henry Thew Stephenson. New 
York : Henry Holt & Co. 

Bacon Cbtptooraxs ik Shakespeabe. By Isaac Hull Piatt. 
Boston : Small. Maynard & Co. 



90 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 1, 



sentences are by no means unconunon ; nor is 
a " false concord " absolutely unknown. The 
Shakespearian reminiscence in "a monument 
that age cannot wither" (p. 285), hardly pro- 
tects the expression from criticism ; and the am- 
biguity of the sentence quoted below, even in its 
context, is likely to give pause to the most alert 
of readers. Speaking of the fall of water be- 
neath London Bridge at certain hours, and of 
its effect on river traffic, the author says : " If, 
in the journey, it was necessary to cross the 
bridge at mid-tide, the passenger had to land 
and wait" (p. 63). To such slips, of course, 
any writer is liable ; but they ought not to occur 
in a work connected with the study of Shake- 
speare. It is too often forgotten that literary 
themes involve stylistic obligations. The proof- 
reading, for the most part, is satisfactory, though 
the first comma in the following clause conceals 
a well-known Elizabethan idiom : "whether 
wheat be good, cheap, or dear" (p. 132). The 
spelling of Spenser with a c (p. 243) seems 
to have escaped both proof-reader and author. 
The index, as is usually the case, is not com- 
plete, and the usefulness of the book is thereby 
materially diminished. 

We have f oimd no miportant errors in mat- 
ters of fact. "The despicable pedant from 
Scotland" (p. 178) is perhaps too severe a 
characterization of James the First, and it is 
certainly an exaggeration to say that Camden "s 
Britannia " to this day is the starting point of 
all study of ancient Britain " (p. 122) ; at least, 
John Ricliard Green did not think so. The 
author, undeterred by Mr. Sidney Lee, asserts 
that " in 1598 WiUiam Shakespeare was living 
in the parish" of St. Helen's (p. 205). 

The work is, of course, foimded on Stow's 
" Survey of London," of which the first edi- 
tion appeared in 1598 ; and naturally the most 
interesting parts of it are the quotations from 
Stow and other contemporary chroniclers. But 
Professor Stephenson has brought together a 
large amount of material scattered in modern 
works and reprints (p. v.), and has illustrated it 
by frequent quotation from Elizabethan drama- 
tists. We could perhaps have spared some of 
his facts, many of which are neither important 
nor relevant, for the sake of a larger number 
of illustrative passages from the plays, " The 
Shoemaker's Holiday" and " The Knight of the 
Burning Pestle," for example, are mines of in- 
teresting allusion that coidd have been worked 
to advantage. We must not, of course, find 
faidt with Professor Stephenson for not doing 
what he did not undertake to do, but we are per- 



suaded that his accounts of Elizabethan places 
and customs wovdd have been more vivid and 
interesting if confirmed by constant reference 
to dramatic literature. As it is, his book will 
render intelligible many an obscure allusion. 

It will not, however, give its readers a clear 
or a unified picture of Elizabethan London. 
We can fancy such a picture, a composition, not 
a catalogue, sufficiently detailed to have reality, 
and so vivified and harmonized by the construc- 
tive imagination as to leave upon the reader's 
mind much the same impression as the pictur- 
esque old city must itself have left on all who 
had eyes to see it. This, perhaps, will be the 
delightfid residt of such work as Professor Ste- 
phenson's. Meantime, we may be content with 
the glimpses that he gives us of rural London, 
and its " fair hedge-rows of elm trees, with 
bridges and easy stiles to pass over into the 
pleasant fields, very commodious for citizens 
therein to walk, shoot, and otherwise to recreate 
and refresh their dull spirits in the sweet and 
wholesome air" (Stow); the cottages in the 
suburbs " for poor bedrid people,"' who lay " in 
their bed within their window, which was toward 
the street, open so low that every man might 
see them, a clean linen cloth lying in their win- 
dow, and a pair of beads, to show that there lay 
a bedrid body, unable but to pray only," ap- 
pealing to the charity of the devout ; the fires 
burning in the city streets thrice a week to 
cleanse the air polluted by the refuse of the 
" kennels " ; and the bell of St. Sepulchre's toll- 
ing for the execution of criminals, while the bell- 
man read, as the malefactors passed the church, 
"All good people pray heartily imto God for 
these poor sinners who are now going to their 
death for whom the great bell doth toll." In 
the chapter on the theatres, the author makes 
the interesting suggestion that the hut above 
the stage, which figures in several contemporary 
prints, contained the machinery that operated 
the traverse (pp. 320, 323). 

The book is illustrated with many interesting 
and unusual prints, plans, and maps. Alto 
gether, it is a usefid addition to the library of 
the student of the Elizabethan drama. 

It is quite true, as Mr. Isaac Hull Piatt re- 
marks in his " Bacon Cryptograms in Shake- 
speare," that while the " Shaksperians " are in 
possession, they are not in undisturbed posses- 
sion. Mr. Piatt's little book is the latest at- 
tempt to create such a disturbance. And at the 
outset we feel botmd to say that while we do not 
find Mr. Piatt's argimients convincing, we quite 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



91 



agree with him that the '* Shaksperians " who 
have taken part in the controversy have rather 
often confounded ridicule and refutation. Im- 
plications of asininity and idiocy no doubt "• im- 
part a gusto," as Charles Lamb woidd say, to 
the pages of the •' Saturday Review," but they 
are not war. We would not, therefore, lay our- 
selves open to the charge of failing to approach 
'• Bacon Cryptograms *' in a spirit of becoming 
seriousness. 

The book consists of eight more or less con- 
nected papers, the most important of which are 
" The Bacon Cryptograms in Love's Labours 
Lost," which deals with the Latin of Act V., 
Scene I., " The Bacon Cryptograms in the 
Shake-speai-e Quartos,"" and •• The Testimony 
of the First Folio." ^Ir. Piatt's tone is emi- 
nently moderate. " I \*'ish distinctly to deny," he 
says, '' that what I am about to present proves 
Bacon's authorship of the Plays. WTiat I do 
claim, and I think in reason, is that they seem to 
constitute grounds for a very strong suspicion 
that he was in some manner concerned in their 
production or associated with them " (p. 2). 

The argiunents presented are so detailed 
that it is impossible to do them justice in a 
brief summary. Roughly it may be said that 
Mr. Piatt resolves the nonsense word " honori- 
ficabditudinatibus " (L.L.L., 5. 1. 44) into 
"^ Hi ludL tuiti sibi, Fr. Bacono nati,^ which 
may be translated, ' These plays, originating 
with FrancLs Bacon, are protected for them- 
selves,' or ' entrusted to themselves,' " of which 
it is doubtful whether the Latin or the English 
is more cryptic : that he finds the name Bacon in 
the headpieces of the quartos of The Taming of 
a Shrew, The First Part of the Contention, and 
Richard 11. ; and that Jonson's connection with 
the First Folio and his relations with Bacon and 
" Shaksper, the actor-manager," " seem to bring 
Bacon pretty close to, at least, an editorial asso- 
ciation with the Folio." It must be admitted 
that in dealing with the last of these points he 
has taken a neat vengeance on Mr. Churton 
Collins, whose paper on •• The Bacon-Shake- 
speare Mania " in his " Studies in Shakespeare " 
must be cheerless reading to all Baconians. Mr. 
Collins rashly asserts that •• there is not a par- 
ticle of evidence that Jonson gave the smallest 
assistance to Bacon in translating any of his 
works into Latin" (p. 352); and adds in 
a footnote, referring to Archbishop Temson's 
Baconiana, "the only translator named is 
Herbert.*' i^Ir. Piatt shows that a few pages 
further on, Tenison says. " The Latin transla- 
tion of them was a work performed by divers 



hands ; by those of Doctor Hacket. . . . Mr. 
Benjamin Johnson (the learned and judicious 
poet), and some others. . . ." 

We have already intimated that we do not 
find Mr. Piatt's reasoning cogent or his posi- 
tions tenable. Yet it woidd not be profitable 
to imdertake a refutation here. As he truly 
says, " the argument for the Baconian author- 
ship depends upon a vast mass of circumstantia 
evidence. It is not a chain, but a bundle of rods. 
Whether Jupiter can break it or not, remains to 
be seen ; but to pull out one or two of the weak- 
est of the rods from the bimdle and triumphantly 
proclaim their weakness does not materially 
affect the strength of the case " (p. 101). But 
supposing one rod after another is withdrawn 
from the bimdle, here and there, by this student 
or that, and neatly broken ? In any given dis- 
cussion, we may admit that the body of testi- 
mony in favor of the Baconian authorship is not 
invalidated ; but when all the important argu- 
ments have been severally demolished, as we 
believe they have been, the case collapses. This, 
of course, assimies that the Baconians have 
irrefragable evidence enough to put the Shake- 
spearians on the defensive, which we are far from 
admitting. Let us take a rod or two at random. 
Mr. Piatt quotes Davies's sonnet to Bacon, the 
last lines of which are, — 

" My Muse thus notes thy worth in every line ! 
With yncke which thus she sugars ; so. to shine," 

and comments, " The allusion in the last line, 
... to Shake-speare's ' sugared sonnets among 
his pri%'ate friends' seems very obvious " (p. 28). 
To which we reply, only to a convinced Baconian. 
The name Bacon, that he discovers in the head- 
pieces of certain quartos, is, we assert, visible 
only to the eye of faith. The discovery of a 
Bacon cryptogram at the beginning and end 
of Lucrece is — we try to '• deliver all with 
charity '" — absurd. His interpretation of the 
Latin of " Love's Labour's Lost" is incoherent 
and unintelligible, and of the nonsense word 
still more nonsensical. His notion that the 
Lucy caricatures (he seems to be unaware that 
2 Henry IV. contains one of the best) were 
suggested to the playwright by the Stratford 
actor-manager from his own experience, is, to 
put it mildly, fantastic. He believes the address 
" To the Great Variety of Readers," in the 
First Folio, to be by Bacon, partly because it is 
" tophea^y with legal phrases "; but he forgets 
that legal phraseology is a literary convention 
of the period, as the sonneteers bear witness. 
He cites the passage, dear to the Baconian heart, 
from Timber, in which Jonson says of Bacon 



92 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 1, 



that he "performed that in our tongue which 
may be compared or preferred either to insolent 
Greece or haughty Rome," and reminds us that 
in the First Folio lines Jonson applies almost 
the same words to the author of the plays. But 
Jonson in both passages is imitating Seneca ; 
the original contains the words insolenti Grce- 
ciae, and it is surely not remarkable that a 
scholar should apply to different persons an in- 
teresting literary allusion, especially when it con- 
tains a sonorous phrase into the bargain. Mr. 
Piatt exclaims, we believe in jest : " Think of 
it — the author of Hamlet allowing his daugh- 
ters to be brought up without being taught to 
write ! That fact alone is sufficient to put Mr. 
William Shaksper out of court." If inatten- 
tion to the education of one's daughters is to be 
regarded as a test of the authenticity of one's 
works, " Paradise Lost " must no longer be at- 
tributed to that very neglectfvJ parent, John 
Milton, but to the " syndicate of which Elwood 
was president," referred to by Mr. Churton Col- 
lins ("Studies in Shakespeare," p. 333). 

Such are some of the rods, and such their 
frangibility. The Shakespearians may breathe 
a sigh of relief, and resimie their immemorial 
repose. Mr. Piatt, at any rate, cannot break 
their sleep. Charles H. A. Wager. 



Bbibfs on New Books. 



The negro ^^' John C. Reed of Atlanta, for- 

influencein marly a Confederate soldier and a 

our history. member of the Ku Klux Klan, is the 

author of an interesting volume called "The Broth- 
ers' War" (Little, Brown, & Co.). The book is 
not an account of the Civil War, but a philosophical 
explanation of the differences between North and 
South during the nineteenth century, — a treatise 
on the negro influence in American history. Mr. 
Reed writes in the best of temper, out of the fulness 
of personal knowledge on some subjects and in 
curious ignorance on others. In his introduction he 
tells the South that it must recognize that slavery 
had to be destroyed because it stood in the way of 
national unity, and that it must now allow free and 
calm discussion of the race question ; on the other 
hand, the North, he says, must acknowledge that 
slavery was mainly a good to the blacks and an 
evU to the whites ; that the negroes of great ability 
are not fair representatives of their race but are 
tinctured with white blood ; that the Ku Klux Klan 
did a great work in saving the South from Afri- 
canization ; and, finally, that the piu-ity and sin- 
cerity of the Southern ante-bellmn leaders must be 
conceded. Some of the topics treated are : Slavery 
as a disruptive force, and as a social and economic 



institution ; the struggle between free and slave 
labor ; the nationalization of the North and of the 
South, which practically resulted in two nations under 
one government ; abolitionists and " fire-eaters " ; 
Calhoun, Webster, Davis, Toombs, and "Uncle 
Tom's Cabin "; and the race question. In the long 
strife between North and South the writer's opinion 
is that both sides were right, but he has small regard 
for the moral convictions of abolitionists and the 
principles of " fire-eaters," whom he considers natu- 
ral phenomena. The "powers unseen" — that is, 
natural forces, or evolution, — fought on the side of 
the North and gave to that section the victory. Mr. 
Reed, by personal observation and long experience 
in the Black Belt, was well acquainted with slavery, 
and is an authority on the present condition of the 
blacks ; but while he asserts the great advantages 
of free over slave labor, he seems not to understand 
the real economic evil at the basis of slavery ; nor 
does he explain exactly how slavery injured the 
Southern whites, though he states that it was an evil 
to the whites. In fact, like some other Black Belt 
writers, he seems to lose sight of the fact that the 
South had free as well as slave labor, that most of 
the whites were non-slaveholders, and that mainly 
upon this class fell the evils of the system. Speak- 
ing only of the mass of the blacks, he compares 
their condition under slavery with their present 
situation under the crop-lien, convict-lease system, 
and peonage, and decides that their later state is 
the worse. Though weak in his knowledge of the 
statistics and economics of slavery, he sees that it is 
better for the whites that the system was destroyed. 
Mr. Reed states that in Georgia he has observed that 
the negro is losing ground in shops and mines, on 
the farm, and as a servant, and he believes that the 
race cannot stand against the competition of the 
white. The small upper class of negroes who have 
won their economic freedom is left out of considera- 
tion. The book is valuable because it is written by 
one who is familiar with much that he writes about ; 
but there are many who will hardly agree with some 
of the conclusions presented. 

Convenient volumes that one can take 
to the fire, and that are cut up into 
short chapters that stimulate without 
taxing the brain, are always attractive to the book- 
lover. Sir Lewis Morris, hitherto known to readers 
as a poet, now offers a collection of twenty-eight 
short papers and addresses, which he collectively 
entitles "The New Rambler" (Longmans). "He 
will," he says in his preface, referring to himself 
in the third person, " be well content should his 
.attempts in prose meet with a measure of the suc- 
cess awarded to those which he has only heretofore 
made in verse." Merely noting by the way the curi- 
ous misplacing of " only " in this sentence, we pass 
on to the body of the book, which contains some 
very good reading. Especially commendable are his 
remarks on " The Place of Poetry in Education." 
Talleyrand's warning to the youth who had no taste 



A poeVs first 
book of prose. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



93 



for whist, — " Young man, you are preparing for 
yourself a miserable old age," — he thinks might 
also be addressed to the young person insensible 
to the charms of poetry. His denial that poetry 
requires to be clothed in metrical form, and his asser- 
tion that " much of Mr. Ruskin's Stones of Venice, 
or Modern Painters, and almost the whole of Mr. 
Carlyle's History of the French Revolution, is un- 
mixed and fine poetry," will not pass unchallenged ; 
nor will his opinion that Milton and Spenser were 
unfortunate in the choice of a theme for their great 
poems. What he says, in his strictures on current 
criticism of poetry, about a " conspiracy of silence " 
among critics, is a familiar cry ; yet who but a dis- 
appointed poet would say it is not also a foolish and 
groundless complaint ? Sir Lewis Morris, however, 
is far from being an unsuccessful poet, for he tells 
VIS on another page that his '' Epic of Hades " " ran 
through three editions of 1000 copies each in its 
first year, and thence went steadily onward, till in 
the present year it has reached its fiftieth thousand 
or more"; and tliat "great lawyers not a few, the 
whole world, in fact, of cultivated people, and last, 
not least, my friend and master. Lord Tennyson, 
hastened to acknowledge the merit of the somewhat 
audacious new writer." Once upon a time, as Sir 
Lewis will doubtless remember, an author who com- 
plained of this diabolical " conspiracy of silence " 
was advised to join the conspiracy. One whose 
books of poetry sell to the extent of Sir Lewis's 
surely need not hesitate to follow the advice. Ap- 
preciative and somewhat extended mention is made 
of Mr. Charles Leonard Moore's half-serioiis, half- 
whimsical essay entitled "A Competitive Examina- 
tion of Poets," which appeared in The Dial some 
years ago. Sir Lewis, as some will recall, has labored 
long in the cause of public education in Wales, be- 
sides producing rapidly-selling volumes of verse ; 
and his experience of life and acquaintance with 
literature make his reflections and reminiscences and 
counsels well worth reading. 

Washin!,ton " Washington and the West " ( Cen- 

as explorer and tury Co. ) is the title of a volume 
expansionist. embracing Washington's Diary kept 
during his western journey in September, 1784, 
together with an Introduction and an explanatory 
essay by Mr. Archer Butler Hulbert, author of 
"Historic Highways." In 1783, before resigning 
from the army, Washington wrote a friend : " I 
shall not rest contented till I have explored the 
Western Country and traversed those lines . . . which 
have given bounds to a new Empire." Already, 
between 1748 and 1783, he had made five trips to 
various parts of the western country. This last and 
longest journey, through western Maryland, western 
Pennsylvania, and northwestern Virginia, was un- 
dertaken in September, 1784, for two purposes : 
Washington wanted, first, to look after the extensive 
tracts of western lands belonging to him, which 
squatters were settling upon and speculators were 
offering for sale in Europe ; and, second, as he had 



stated, " to obtain information of the nearest and 
best communication between the Eastern and West- 
ern waters, and to facilitate as much as lay in my 
power the island navigation of the Potomac." The 
Diary is almost entirely a study of the western 
highway problem. Washington's belief was that 
" there is nothing which binds one country or one 
state to another but interest "; and this " cement of 
interest" was needed to attach to the East the rap- 
idly growing West, whose people "stand as it were 
on a pivot, and the touch of a feather would almost 
incline them either way." It was necessary, for 
political as well as commercial reasons, that the 
West be opened up to the East, and not be left to 
cast its lot politically and commercially with the 
Spaniards of the South or the British of Canada. 
And as a good Virginian, Washington was con- 
vinced that the proper route from the East to the 
West lay through Virginia. The Diary shows that 
on this western trip he sought for and obtained 
detailed information about every river and creek and 
valley that could possibly be used for purposes of com- 
merce. After careful investigation, he concluded 
that an all- Virginia route to the West was not 
practicable ; but that Maryland, which was willing, 
and Pennsylvania, which was unwilling, must also 
assist in the undertaking and share the benefits with 
Virginia. Mr. Hulbert's part has been to edit care- 
fully the Diary, which has not before been published 
as a whole, and to add a careful essay on the 
" Awakening of the West," which is, so to speak, a 
translation of the Diary into modern narrative, with 
explanations of the text. Washington's spelling of 
proper names was phonetic and eccentric, and for 
the general reader Mr. Hulbert has performed 
genuine service in explaining the crabbed text and 
the picturesque orthography. According to him, 
the great value of the Diary is to throw a side-light 
upon the Washington who was "First in Peace," — 
the daring explorer, the shrewd clear-headed busi- 
ness man, the " first commercial American." whose 
influence upon American expansion and upon the 
policy of internal improvements was so profound, — 
"the greatest man in America had there been no 
Revolutionary War." 

_- ^ , The soldier on parade should have 

jyi: Osier *^ 

in pithy his nerves under such control that 

paragraphs. ^ spider might Spin its web over his 
face without causing so much as the twitching of a 
muscle. This perfect self-command, in small wor- 
ries as in larger anxieties and dangers, is repeatedly 
and emphatically enjoined upon the physician by 
Dr. William Osier in his " Aequanimitas," and else- 
where. From his numerous addresses and printed 
papers a handy volume of " Counsels and Ideals " 
(Houghton, Mifflin & Co.) has been compiled, with 
the author's consent and cooperation, by Dr. C. N. B. 
Camac. From the days of Sir Thomas Browne, to 
go no further back, our polite literature has been en- 
riched with the productions of physician-authors, the 
humanities and the beneficent art of healing having 



94 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 1, 



a certain natural inter-relationship, or consanguinity. 
To this noble line of wielders of both pen and scal- 
pel, to whom Dr. Osier more than once refers with 
professional pride, his own name has ab-eady been 
added by the reading public. His claiming of Keats 
as one of the physician-poets may at first produce a 
slight interrogative uplift of eyebrows ; but it ap- 
pears that the author of " Endymion " was in fact a 
licensed surgeon, however completely one may have 
forgotten his brief term of hospital practice. What 
most impresses one on examining this selection from 
forty-seven of the author's fugitive pieces is not only 
the professional and practical wisdom displayed, and 
the breadth of view revealed, but also the wide read- 
ing in writers not commonly held to be a necessary 
part of a doctor's library. Even a careless turning 
of the leaves of " Counsels and Ideals " brings to 
light many apt allusions to and quotations from 
Plato, Aristotle, St. Paul, Shakespeare, Milton, 
Bunyan, Sterne, Oscar Wilde, Lowell, George Eliot, 
and numerous others. Of especial interest to young 
physicians, this book also attracts the general reader 
by reason of its fine literary quality, to say nothing of 
the sound substance to which this quality serves as 
a sauce. An instructive commentary on a certain 
pet theory of the author's is furnished by the dates 
at which the forty-seven cited addresses and essays 
were delivered or published. Only one is dated ear- 
lier than 1890, while fifteen belong to the years 
1900-1905. Take 1849 as a subtrahend, and be- 
hold the result ! 

Romantic When a successful historical novelist 

episodes in turns historian in the sober sense, we 

Illinois hutory. ^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^ ^ readable book. 

When he has for his subject so significant a region 
as the State of Illinois, we may count also upon a 
remarkable degree of interest. This is the case of 
Mr. Randall Parrish, whose " Historic Illinois : The 
Romance of the Early Days," has recently been pub- 
lished by Messrs. A. C. McClurg & Co. It remains 
to be added that the author has made use of a wide 
range of good authorities, and has not allowed imag- 
ination (save as far as picturesque effect is concerned) 
to get the better of fact. It is his bold but not ai> 
parently exaggerated contention that no State of the 
Union surpasses Illinois in the romantic incidents 
of early days. These are full of color, action, and ad- 
venture, for above these peaceful plains and woods 
once waved the flags of four contending nations, 
while men of the white race and the red strove 
continually for mastery. A few of Mr. Parrish's 
subjects may be mentioned to illustrate the richness 
of his field. There are the mound-builders, the Fort 
Dearborn massacre, and the Black Hawk War. There 
are the explorations and adventm'es of Marquette, 
La Salle, and Tonty. There are the stories of the 
Spanish invasion, of Clark's expedition, and of the 
Mormon expulsion. There are the narratives of lead- 
mining, border outlawry, and the struggle against 
slavery. And there are special chapters upon such 
subjects as the story of the capital, notable border 



characters, and old steamboat days. There are also 
many illustrations. Altogether the book is highly 
attractive, and wUl be found particularly useful in 
the schools, every one of which shoidd be provided 
with a copy. 

Mrs. Boas's "With Milton and the 
Milton and his Cavaliers " (James Pott & Co. ) is not 

contemporaries. , .^ n • i -i 

an instructive or a well-written book. 
It is a compilation of familiar facts concerning 
seventeenth century notables, made in accordance 
with the theory that "we must follow the lives of 
those of Milton's time who helped to make En- 
gland what he knew it " in order that we may have 
" some faint appreciation of the difticulties in which 
his lot was cast, and to which perhaps he owed the 
clearest insight poet has ever shown into the won- 
derful dealings of the Creator, and 'man's first 
disobedience.' " The papers, however, are not con- 
nected in any way, and therefore fail to suggest 
the unified view of the period, at which Mrs. Boas 
aims. The style is rambling and inconsequent, the 
paragraphing eccentric, and the author's critical and 
interpretative comments feeble. The following is 
her remark on the style of Sir Thomas Browne : " He 
was a most industrious writer throughout his long 
life, and his works well repay careful study. . . . 
His style has a charm of its own, and one which left 
its mark upon the prose of the time at which he 
wrote." The author has not even the doubtful merit 
of a good strong prejudice on either side of the great 
seventeenth century struggle. The Latin dedication 
to the memory of Professor York Powell, however, 
is charming. We are grateful, too, for the follow- 
ing passage on the child's vision of the world, from 
Traherne's "Centuries of Meditation": 

"The com was orient and immortal wheat which never 
should be reaped nor was ever sown. I thought it had stood 
from everlasting to everlasting. The dust and stones of the 
street were as precious as gold : the gates were at first the end 
of the world. The green trees when I saw them first through 
one of the gates transported and ravished me ; their sweetness 
and unusual beauty made my heart to leap, and almost mad 
with eestacy, they were such strange and wonderful things. 
. . . Boys and girls tumbling in the street were moving jewels : 
I knew not that they were bom or should die. . . . The 
city seemed to stand in Eden or to be built in Heaven. The 
streets were mine, the temple was mine, the people were mine, 
their clothes and gold and silver were mine, as much as their 
sparkling eyes, fair skins, and ruddy faces. The skies were 
mine, and so were the sun and moon and stars, and all the 
world was mine ; and I the only spectator and enjoyer of it." 



„ . , No nature book has been writtten for 

Records of a . c i i • • 

photographer- a long time SO comfortable in its gen- 
naturaiist. ^^^\ ^^ne as Mr. Silas A. Lottridge's 

"Animal Snapshots and How Made" (Holt). It 
occasions no misgivings about the author's accm-acy, 
"and causes even the ordinary reader little embar- 
rassment at his own ignorance. Lovers of nature- 
sensations may call the book commonplace, and so 
in a sense it is, for the animals it presents in text and 
pictures are those with which every farmer's boy is 
familiar — woodchuck, musk-rat, squirrel, fox, and 
raccoon, — and the birds are those we all know. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



95 



There are no thrilling tales, except as the tragedies 
of all out-door life are thrilling to readers who have 
sympathies. The author does not even make as 
much as he might out of his heroic struggles for 
photographs of the shyer creatures ; indeed the obvi- 
ous faiJt of the book is that it does not emphasize 
the method of securing pictures enough to justify 
its title. But the very familiarity of the subjects 
endears them, and the author's modesty is refresh- 
ing. The only danger is that the reader, taking 
comfort in much that he already knows, will miss the 
rarer quality of certain passages. There is plenty 
of implicit poetry in some of the descriptions, such 
as that of a tryst with the gray squirrels at dawn, 
when "there is a regular tattoo of sounds on the 
forest floor, caused by tiny showers of dew shaken 
from the leaves, as the squirrels leap from the end 
of one slender branch to another." And as for 
originality, nothing more need be said than that Mr. 
Lottridge placed a microphone in the wall of his 
bluebird box, and attached a telephone to it, so 
that he heard all the family conversations during 
the nesting season. The photographs are all enjoy- 
able, while a few of them — that of a muskrat swim- 
ming, of a woodcock on her nest, and of a chicken- 
hawk •* at attention " — are triumphs of the art. 

„ ... The fourth volume of 'Mi. Herbert 

English men r -»«^ i t-> 

and measures Paul s '' History of Modern En- 
fromi876tois85. gland" (Macmillan) covers the ten 
years from 1876 to 1885. As in the preceding 
volumes (previously reviewed in The Dial) the 
author's method is that of strict chronological nar- 
rative, basetl on a study of Parliamentary Papers 
and of the few biographies and memoirs so far 
available. His work is everywhere compact, but 
his terse and vigorous stj'le gives emphasis to what 
might otherwise easily read like a mere summary 
of political events. In the present volume also, Mr. 
Paul evidently feels himself much more familiar 
with the conditions he is studying and much more 
free to give a personal judgment upon the policies 
adopted or upon the acts of parliamentary leaders. 
He is himself a Liberal in politics and has been a 
Member of Parliament, so that his criticisms must 
necessarily be read with allowance for his point of 
view. Yet he is free in his criticisms of both par- 
ties, and his intimate knowledge of the inner work- 
ings of political life, and his personal acquaintance 

' with the men he is describing, render such criticisms 
well worth while in themselves. In general he is 
inclined to attack the policies of the Tory partj-, 
and to criticise his own party simply on the ground 
of errors in political manoeuvring. As this history 
approaches the present time and becomes more per- 

. tinent to present-day conditions, it assumes a livelier 
tone, and many little-known but illuminative anec- 
dotes of men are introduced that serve to render the 
history itself much more attractive. Disraeli's 
flippant yet piercing phrases, Gladstone's ponderous 
oratorical effects, or Bright's clear-cut analyses of 
conditions, all help to leave an impress of the men 



themselves. The fifth and concluding volume of 
Mr. Paul's work, approaching still nearer to the 
present time, should be of yet greater interest to 
those who wish an understanding of contemporary 

English politics. 

A contribution '^^ WiUiam Lloyd Garrison centen- 
to the Garrison nial anniversary has elicited from the 
anniversary. pg^ ^f Mr. Ernest Crosby a little vol- 
ume entitled "Garrison the Non-Resistant," which 
comes from the Public Publishing Company of Chi- 
cago. Considering the history of the past few years, 
it is a fact of hopeful significance that such a char- 
acter as that of Garrison has received so generous 
and widespread recog^tion as the hundredth anni- 
versary of his birth has called forth. There are 
many who assert, and who doubtless honestly be- 
lieve, that Garrison was a drag rather than a help 
to the anti-slavery cause, for the reason that his 
methods were not generally adopted, and because 
the actual freeing of the slaves came about as an 
incident of a policy to which he was ardently op- 
posed. Those who go below the surface know the 
shallowness of such a view. Just such an agitation 
as Garrison led was absolutely essential to that re- 
vulsion of public opinion without which the freedom 
of the slave, by any method whatever, was an utter 
impossibility. We cannot agree with Mr. Crosby 
in his criticism of Gfarrison for not throwing las 
talents as a reformer into the cause of labor in its 
conflict with capital. Freedom or slavery was a 
clean-cut question of right and wrong ; there were 
good and bad people on both sides, but one side was 
essentially right in what it asked and the other 
essentially wrong. No such clearly definable issue 
has as yet appeared in the struggle between capi- 
talists and laborers. Also, while we agree with Mr. 
Crosby in his ardent opposition to war, we can 
hardly assent to his view that G^arrison's abolition- 
ism was a mere incident in his career as a non- 
resistant. Apart from these possible flaws, however, 
Mr. Crosby has written a wholesome book for the 
times, and we hope that it will have a wide reading. 

Comments on -^ Volume of 320 pages in which there 
things and places, axe thirty-eight essays or articles on 
books and men. ^^^^^^^ ^ ^j^iy different and un- 

related as "The Tannery at Mondoa" and "The 
Religious Significance of Precious Stones " presents 
some difficulties to the reviewer which are not re- 
concilable to the usual critical standards. The 
final chapter, " Chips from a Literary Workshop," 
adds fifty different topics commented upon in short 
paragraphs ; and all of this material goes to make 
up the latest published work of Mr. Frederic Row- 
land Marvin, "The Companionship of Books, and 
Other Papers" (Putnam). The author has here 
collected articles, essays, notes and scraps, often- 
times mere parag^phs or sentences about various 
things, — books, places, and men. Some of the longer 
articles have been published in magazines ; others 
are here printed for the first time. To judge of 
the whole as literature is out of the question. To 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 1, 



read it as the note-book of a man well-read and 
broadly interested in a vast niunber of things, lit- 
erary and otherwise, is the best method of approach. 
Mr. Marvin has covered a large field in his choice 
of subjects, and they sound well as titles, but are 
often disappointing in their imfolding. He fails to 
realize an ideal in the chapter on " The Companion- 
ship of Books," but he is tender and sympathetic 
over the tomb of Heloise and Abelard and the story 
of Paolo and Francesca. He is perhaps at his best 
when musing over the qualities of an old friend or 
some obscure hero. He becomes lugubrious when 
lingering in graveyards or writing about "The 
Modern View of Death" or "Dust to Dust," etc., 
etc. Mr. Marvin recalls to our minds a number 
of forgotten themes in a pleasant way, and says a 
great many good and wise things in a plain and 
simple manner. There is in his writings a little of 
the preacher and a little of the teacher and a good 
deal of the philosopher, but less of the literary man 
than one might expect to find in such a volume. 

A lively study ^ fortunate choice of subject and a 
of " La Grande decided skUl in presenting it places 
Mademoiselle:' ^jae. ArvMe Barine's " Louis XIV. 
and La Grande Mademoiselle" (Putnam) in quite 
a different class from the perfunctory and colorless 
studies of the heroines of the old French regime 
which are turned out in large numbers at every 
publishing season. It would perhaps be more diffi- 
cult to write a dull book about " La Grande Made- 
moiselle " than a brilliant one. But Mme. Barine 
has made her heroine's strange personality so vivid 
and individual, and has entered so thoroughly into 
the spirit of her mad vagaries and misgmded im- 
pulses, that the narrative has all the vivacity of 
fiction, though at the same time its historical care 
and accuracy are evident at every turn. This vol- 
imie takes up the career of Mile, de Montpensier 
where the same author's previous study, "The 
Youth of La Grande Mademoiselle" dropped it, 
just at the close of the Fronde. MUe. de Montpen- 
sier never lost the ideals of her youth and accepted 
the new regime of absolute monarchy and abased 
nobility only after a life-time's hopeless struggle. 
Next to depicting her heroine, Mme. Barine has 
been interested in making intelligible the enigmat- 
ical personality of the young king, so different from 
the old man of Saint-Simon's "M^moires," and in 
showing how he imposed his ideas of kingship, 
which were Spanish rather than French, upon his 
generation. Altogether, she has written a delightful 
study of a fascinating epoch. The translation, which 
is anonymous, is easy and unaffected. There are 
thirty illustrations from contemporaneous sources. 

Rose Eytinge was in the hey-day of 
her popularity during the "palmy 
days " of the American drama, — the 
days of Edwin Booth, Lester Wallack, E. L. Daven- 
port, and Augustin Daly, of all of whom she was the 
associate and personal friend. She entered the pro- 



An American 
actress of 
the old school. 



fession when a mere girl ; success followed so fast 
that in a few years she was playing with Booth, of 
whom she has several pleasant personal anecdotes 
to relate in her entertaining autobiography, " The 
Memories of Rose Eytinge" (Stokes). The most 
interesting portions of the book deal with the larger 
professional career of Miss Eytinge, when she be- 
came one of the best known of our women players ; 
with her official residence in Cairo, as the wife of 
the American representative, George H. Butler ; 
with her return to the stage as a member of 
the famous Union Square Company — her " Rose 
Michel " days ; with her triiunphs in London, where 
she became acquainted with Charles Dickens, Wilkie 
Collins, Edmund Yates, Robert Buchanan, Mrs. 
Gladstone, and others as well known. The book 
abounds in interesting bits of reminiscence, anec- 
dotes, and incidents of public characters, with side- 
lights on theii" idiosyncrasies, — forming the naive 
chronicles and observations of over half a century. 



BRIEFER MENTION. 



Two new volumes in the attractive " Oxford Poets," 
published by Mr. Henry Frowde, are the " Complete 
Poetical Works of William Cowper," edited by Mr. 
H. S. Milford, and a reprint of the three-volume edi- 
tion of Browning's poems issued in 1863, with " Pau- 
line " and two short fugitive pieces added. Especially 
welcome is the Cowijer volume, which includes every 
poem of his hitherto printed except the translations of 
Homer and " Adamo," with full and careful editorial 
apparatus. These well-printed and inexpensive edi- 
tions of the poets deserve high praise. 

" The American Catalog " (sic) now sent us from the 
office of "The Publishers' Weekly," covers the five 
years 1900-4 inclusive, and is a thick volume of about 
fifteen himdred pages, each year being paged sepa- 
rately. It differs from the other volume of the same 
title in giving f idl title entries with annotations, instead 
of condensed titles. It is practically a reprint, sys- 
tematized into one alphabet for each year, from the 
weekly record of "The Publishers' Weekly," and is, of 
coxu-se, a work of mdispensable importance to librarians, 
editors, and booksellers. The publishers plan to issue a 
similar volume at the end of each five-year period. 

" The Chief American Poets," edited by Mr. Curtis 
Hidden Page, and published by Messrs. Houghton, 
Mifflin & Co., is a companion volume to the same edi- 
tor's " British Poets of the Nineteenth Century." It 
aims to provide not an anthology, but a corpus of the 
best work of the nine poets included, who are Bryant, 
Poe, Emerson, Longfellow, Whittier, Holmes, Lowell, 
Whitman, and Lanier. Since the volume has over seven 
himdred two-columned closely-printed pages, it is not 
impossible to give a fairly adequate representation of 
this number of poets. The work of the editor includes an 
introduction, footnotes, indexes, biographical sketches, 
and bibliographies. Each bibliography has four sections : 
editions, biography and reminiscences, criticism, and 
tributes in verse. The number of references here given 
is sufficient for a fairly complete study of each of the 
poets concerned, and it is particularly for this feature 
of the volume that we are grateful. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



97 



Lippincott's " Complete Pronouncing Gazetteer, or 
Greographical Dictionary of the World " has been for 
many years one of the works of reference absolutely 
indispensable to every school, library, and home, not 
merely because it has had no riyal, but also because it 
has been, in its successive editions, a work of such 
thorough execution ^d admirable plan as to leave no 
room for adverse criticism. A work of this sort, of 
course, must be revised at intervals, and the book in 
question has now been given a very complete revision 
at the hands of Messrs. Angelo and Louis HeUprin. It 
is printed in new type from cover to cover just half a 
century from the appearance of its first edition. There 
are upwards of two thousand two-columned pages. 

No better idea of the great advances made of late 
in the field of artistic photography could be gained than 
from the volume called " Photograms of the Year," 
published by Messrs. Tennant & Ward, New York. 
This is a collection of reproductions and criticisms of 
typical photographic pictures of the year just closed, 
compiled by the staff of the English " Photographic 
Monthly," assisted by A. C. R. Carter. There are re- 
ports from France, Germany, Denmark, Canada, Wid 
Spain, besides a general retrospect of " ITie Work of 
the Year " and detailed accoimts of the two great Eng- 
lish exhibitions of 1905. More than one himdred and 
fifty representative photographs, finely reproduced and 
printed, illiLstrate the pages of this interesting volume. 

The annual volume of proceedings of the National 
Educational Association, reporting the Asbury Park 
meeting of last July, has now been published, and will 
be foimd to contain a series of discussions, quite as im- 
portant as usual, of most of the educational topics of 
timely Interest. Even more valuable, in some respects, 
are the three special reports, separately printed, that 
accompany the main volume. The subjects of these 
reports are industrial education in rural schools, taxa- 
tion in its relation to education, and the present condi- 
tions of salary, tenure, and pension, under which the 
teachers of the United States are performing their 
poorly-rewarded labors. These reports ought to serve 
as the basis of an early improvement in the professional 
status of the teacher, and of a widened sense of respon- 
sibility in the matter of taxation. 

Particular interest attaches to the new volume of 
English " Book-Prices Ctirrent " (London: Elliot Stock) 
because of the unusual number of rare and valuable 
books which have been sold at auction during the sea- 
son of 1905. Some sixty-nine works, most of them in sin- 
gle volumes, brought their owners over £24,000. Fust 
iind Schaeffer's Psalter of 1459, the Countess of Pem- 
broke's " Au Tonie," dated 1595, Caxton's " Book called 
Caton," and twenty-one Shakespeariana were among 
the great prizes of the year. Another item of unusual 
mterest to collectors is the catalogue, running to ninety 
pages, of the library of the late Mr. John Scott, of Largs, 
Ayrshire, whose volumes of English history, because 
of their extreme rarity, have an interest for the biblio- 
phile quite out of proportion to their market value. 
This new volimie of " Book Prices Current " has, like 
its predecessors, been very carefully compiled and fully 
indexed. The subject index which formerly stood at 
the beginning of the work has been united with the 
general index, and the whole now appears in one alpha- 
bet at the end. On the whole, bibliophiles will find the 
new volume more than ordinarily interesting and useful ; 
while to booksellers and librarians it is, of course, an 
ndispensable working tool. 



XOTES . 

Dr. C. T. Winchester, Professor of English Literature 
at Wesleyan University, has written a popular Life of 
John Wesley which the Macmillan Co. will presently 
issue. 

" Napoleon and his Tunes " is the title of the new 
volume in " The Cambridge Modem History." It 
will probably be completed in time for issue during 
March. 

" Tarry at Home Travels " is the title of a new book 
by Dr. Edward Everett Hale announced by the Macmil- 
lan Co. for Spring publication. The volume will be fully 
illustrated from portraits, old prints, and photographs. 

" A Guide to the Ring of the Nibelung," by Mr. 
Richard Aldrich, is published by the Oliver Ditson Co. 
There are numerous illustrations in musical notation, 
and the book furnishes a very helpful aid to the study 
of Wagner's great tetralogy. 

" The Plays and Poems of Christopher Marlowe " 
and " The Miscellaneous Works of Groldsmith " make 
up the contents of the latest volumes in the ever- 
welcome " Caxton Thin Paper Series," imported by 
Messrs. Charles Scribner's Sons. 

Dr. Stopford Brooke's new volume of criticism, which 
he is now preparing, will probably be entitled "The 
Poetic Movement in Ireland." The book will contain 
appreciations of Matthew Arnold, Dante Gabriel Ro- 
setti, Clough, and WiUiam Morris. 

The Open Court Publishing Co. send us a pamphlet 
containing Count Tolstoy's essay on " Christianity and 
Patriotism," accompanied by extracts from certain others 
of his essays, the whole translated by various hands, and 
provided with an epilogue by Dr. Paul Cams. 

An explanatory list of " Abbreviations Used in Book 
Catalogues " has been compiled by Mary Medlicott of 
the Springfield City Library, and is published by the 
Boston Book Co. Many others besides librarians will 
find this modest pamphlet of much usefulness. 

A timely addition to the " Old South Leaflets " is 
made in " Franklin's Boyhood in Boston," a selection 
from the opening pages of the Autobiography. At the 
end of the pamphlet are printed the provisions relating 
to Boston in Franklin's will and a few helpful notes. 

We have just received from the Government Printing 
Office a " List of the Benjamin Franklin Papers in the 
Library of Congress," compiled by Mr. Worthington 
C. Ford, also the annual report of the Librarian, Mr. 
Herbert Putnam, for the year ending with last Jime. 

A careful examination of an interesting but hitherto 
rather neglected subject is promised by the Baker & 
Taylor Co. in a volume entitled "The Country Town, 
a Study of Rural Evolution." The author is Mr. Wil- 
bur L. Anderson, and an introduction is contributed by 
Dr. Josiah Strong. 

Mr. Frederic Harrison has completed a drama on 
which he has been engaged since the publication of his 
Byzantine romance, " Theophano." It is not a dramar- 
tized version of that tale, but rather a tragedy founded 
on the same incidents. The play will not be published 
until it has appeared on the stage. 

The " Letters and Addresses of Thomas Jefferson " 
is the ninth volume in the series of reprints issued by 
the Unit Book Publishing Co. It is edited by Messrs. 
William B. Parker and Jonas Viles, and gives us nearly 
three hundred pages of carefully-selected text, besides 
the notes. Similar volumes of Washington, Adams, 



98 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 1, 



Franklin, and Hamilton, are mentioned as being in prep- 
ai-ation. These books are a positive boon for teachers 
of history in our schools. 

Herr Julius WolfP's rhymed narrative of " The Wild 
Huntsman," first published thirty years ago, has foiuid 
a skilful translator in Mr. Ralph Davidson, and a sym- 
pathetic illustrator in Mr. Woldeniar Friedrich, the 
combined product now making an English book pub- 
lished by the Messrs. Putnam. 

" The Book of Photography, Practical, Theoretic, 
and Applied," edited by Mr. Paul N. Hasluck, is pub- 
lished by Messrs. Cassell & Co. It is a big book of 
some eight hundred pages, encyclopaedic in scope, and 
abimdantly illustrated. It will prove a veritable boon 
to amateur and professional photographers alike. 

A pretty " Lewis Carroll Birthday Book " has been 
compiled by Mrs. Christine Terhune Herrick and is 
published by the A. Wessels Co. There are alternate 
blank pages throughout the volume, with selections 
from Dodgson's inspired nonsense for each day in the 
year, and several of Teimiel's drawings. 

" The Bivouac of the Dead and Its Author," by Mr. 
George W. Ranck, is a small book published at the 
Grafton Press. While we are by no means certam that 
the poem in question is " the greatest martial elegy in 
existence," it is important enough to deserve this treat- 
ment, and the accompanying commemoration of Theo- 
dore O'Hara, its author. 

" Specimens of Discourse," edited by Dr. Arthur 
Lynn Andrews, is a new volume of the " English 
Readings " published by Messrs. Henry Holt & Co. 
The contents are of a nature to illustrate the four fun- 
damental types of composition, and are consequently of a 
very miscellaneous character. The book is intended for 
students in high schools and the early years of college. 

Some time this month the Harpers wUl publish the 
first volume of a series to be called " The Mark Twain 
Library of Humor." It is the aim of the editor to in- 
clude not only representative selections from the works 
of the recognized f xm-makers, but to give full and right- 
ful place to those writers who while working in a wider 
field, have yet given expression to the purest humor. 
The first volume will be called " Men and Things." 

Mr. Clyde Fitch's play, "The Girl with the Green 
Eyes," is published in book form by the Macmillan 
Co., with due reservation of the rights of performance. 
While far from being a distinguished illustration of the 
literary drama, the play reads very well — possibly 
better than it sovmds when acted. And we always 
welcome the appearance of acting plays in a form that 
permits of their being read at all. 

After several years' preparation, Messrs. Henry Holt 
& Co. will shortly begin the publication of an important 
series of books dealing with contemporary political, 
economic, and social questions, to be called " American 
Public Problems." The first volume is entitled " Im- 
migration and its Effect upon the United States," and 
is the work of Dr. Prescott F. Hall, for many years 
secretary of the Immigration Restriction League. 
Neither this nor the volumes to follow are designed to 
preseht any particular theory or to uphold any especial 
doctrine. Each will contain a complete history of the 
question treated, in its political and legislative aspects ; 
with all the available facts pertinent to it, and a careful 
and impartial discussion of the policies advocated. The 
series is under the general editorial direction of Mr. 
Ralph Curtis Ringwalt, of the New York bar. 



Topics in IjEAdino Periodicals. 

February, 1906. 

Architecture, Domestic, Some Recent Designs in. Studio. 
Arctic, Two Years in the. Anthony Fiala. McClure. 
Army as a Career. Lloyd Buchanan. WorWs Work. 
Art Books, Significant. Royal Cortissos. Atlantic. 
Barrier, The Last. Charles G. D. Roberts. Harper. 
California's Fruit Crops, Saving. W. S. Harwood. Century. 
Ceramic Work of Burslem Art School. E. N. Scott. Studio. 
China, The New. Thomas F. Millard. Scribner. 
Christian Endeavor Movement. H. B. F. Macf arland. No . A mer. 
Christianity in Japan, Future of. J. L. Deering. World Today. 
City's Fight for Beauty, A. Henry Schott. Woi-ld's Work. 
Comet, What is a ? William H. Pickering. Harper. 
Constitution, Written, Elasticity of. Hannis Taylor. No.Amer. 
Damrosch, Frank. E. N. Vallandigham. World's Work. 
Electoral Corruptjon in England. Arthur Pottow. No. Amer. 
Eliana: the Latest Windfall, William C. Hazlitt. Atlantic. 
English Art Club, The New. E. Douglas Shields. World Today. 
Erie Canal and Freight Rebates. C. H. Quinn. World Today. 
" Essex, The Gentleman from." Lincoln Steffens. McClure. 
Europe, Diplomatic, Masters of. World's Work. 
Exploration. N. S. Shaler. Atlantic. 

French Presidency and American. Munroe Smith. Rev. of Revs. 
Galveston's New Sea-Wall. W. Watson Davis. Rev. of Reviews. 
Georgia, A Great Citizen of. Albert Shaw. Revieiv of Reviews. 
Germany, How Science Helps Industry in. Review of Reviews. 
Government as a Home-Maker. Hamilton Wright. irorJd Today. 
Gulf Ports, Development of our. Review of Revieivs. 
Hankey, William Lee, Art of. A. Lys Baldry. Studio. 
Harper, President. John H. Finley. Review of Reviews. 
Hayti, Future of. Eugene P. Lyle, Jr. World's Work. 
" Ik Marvel," Charm of. Annie Russell Marble. Atlantic. 
Imperialist, First American. W. S. Rossiter. North Americaii. 
Impressionist Painters, Reminiscences of. George Moore. Scrib. 
Industrial Securities as Investments. C. A. Conant. Atlantic. 
Japan since the War. Mary C. Eraser. World's Work. 
Japan's " Elder Statesman." W. Elliot Griffiis. North American. 
Jefferson, Joseph, at Work and Play. Francis Wilson. Scrib. 
Kansas Land Fraud Investigation. World Today. 
Keats, Portraits of. William Sharp. Century. 
Lesser Virtues, The. Anonymous. Lippincott. 
Life Insurance Remedy, The. World's Work. 
Life, The Riddle of. H. Chariton Bastian. World Today. 
Mexico, The Year in. Frederic R. Guernsey. Atlantic. 
Miniatures, Recent Vienna Exhibition of. Studio. 
Moose, The, and his Antlers. Ernest Thompson Seton. Scribner. 
National Academy of Design Exhibition. -Studio. 
National Portraiture Gallery. William Walton. Scribner. 
Negro, Joys of Being a. Edward E. Wilson. Atlantic. 
New York Revisited. Henry James. Harper. 
Nola. Feast of Lilies at. W. G. Fitz-Gerald. World Today. \ 
Opera in America, Early Days of. Rufus R. Wilson, Lippincott. 
Parental Schools, Our. Mary R. Gray. World Today. 
Photography, Marvels of. H. W. Lanier. World's Work. 
Pianists Now and Then. W, J. Henderson. Atlantic. 
Poetry, English— What it Owes to Young People. No. American. 
Pure Food BUI and Senate. H. B. Needham. World's Work. 
Railroads, President and the. Charles A. Prouty. Century. 
Ranch, The 101. M. G. Cunniff. World's Work. 
Representation, Congress Can Reduce. No. American. 
Richardson, Fred, Some Pen Drawings by. Studio. 
River, Toilers of the. Thornton Oakley. Harper. 
Robinson, Sir John Charles, Etchings of. A. M. Hind. Studio. 
Senate, The United States. William Everett. Atlantic. 
Senatorial Courtesy, Salvation by. World Today. 
Severn, Joseph, A Reminiscence of. R. W. G. Century. 
Shakespeare's Julius Caesar. Harold Hodge. Harper. 
Sinai, The Egyptians in. W. M. Flinders-Petrie. Harper. 
Society of Western Artists Exhibition. Studio. 
South's Amazing Progress, The. R. H. Edmonds. Rev. of Revs. 
Speech, Schoolmastering the. T. R. Loxmsbury. Harper. 
State, Building a, by Organized Effort. Review of Reviews. 
Telephone Movement, The. Jesse W. Weik. Atlantic. 
Texas, Southwest, Growth of. Revietv of Revieivs. 
Theatre Francais, The. H, C. Chatfield-Taylor. World Today. 
Tito, Ettore, Paintings of. Ludwig Brosch. Studio. 
Trolley Car as a Social Factor. K. E. Harriman. WorldlToday. 
Trust Company Reserves. George W. Young. No. American. 
Turgot, Statesmanship of. Andrew D. White. Atlantic. 
Umbrian Idyl, An. Anne H. Wharton. Lippincott. 
United States a Parsimonious Employer. North American. 
Villas of the Venetians. George F. Fernald. Scribner. 
War, Is the United States Prepared for? North American. 
Workingmen's Insurance. C.R.Henderson. World Today. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



99 



IL.IST OF Xeav Books. 

[The following list, containing 78 tides, includes books 
received btf The Diai. since its last tssue.] 

BIOGRAPHY AND KEICINISCBNCES. 

A Life of Walt Whitman. By Henry Bryan Binns. Hlos. in 
photogravure, etc.. large 8to. grilt top, uncut, pp. 369. E. P. 
Durton & Co. $3. net. 

Furtlier Memoirs of the Whig Party, 1807-1821. With 
some miscellaneous reminiscences. By Henry Kichard Vas- 
sall, third Lord Holland ; edited by Lord Stavordale. With 
photogravure portraits, large 8vo. gilt top, uncut, pp. 420. 
E. P. Button & Co. to. net. 

Edvard Grrieg. By H. T. Finck. Illus.. 12mo, gilt top, uncut, 
pp. 130. ■■ Living Masters of Music." John Lane Co. $1. net. 

John Fiske. By Thomas Sergeant Perry. With photogravure 
portrait. 24mo. gilt top, uncut, pp. 106. " Beacon Biog- 
raphies." Small. Maynard & Co. 75 cts. net. 

Lord George Bentinck: A Political Biography. By B. 
Disraeli. New edition ; with introduction by Charles Whib- 
ley. 8vo, gut top, uncut, pp. 385. E. P. Dutton & Co. $2. net, 

HISTORY. 

The Jews of South Carolina, from the Earliest Times to the 
Present Day. By Bamett A. Elzas. M.D. Large 8vo. gilt top, 
xmcut, pp. 352. Press of J. B. Lippincott Co. |6. net. 

The Federalist System, 1789-1801. By John Spencer Bassett, 
Ph.D. With maps. 8vo. gilt top, uncut, pp. 327. " The 
American Xation." Harper & Brothers. $2. net. 

Somerset House. Past and Present, By Raymond Needham 
and Alexander Webster. Illus. in photogravure, etc., large 
8vo, gilt top. imcut. pp. 344. E. P. Dutton & Co. $3.50 net. 

Carthage of the Phoenicians in the Light of Modem Exca- 
vation. By Mabel Moore. Illus. in color, etc., 12mo, tmcut, 
pp. 184. E. P. Dutton & Co. $1.50 net. 

A History of the Friends in America. By Allen C. Thomas, 
.A.M.. and Richard Henry Thomas, M,D. Fourth edition, 
thoroughly revised and enlarged. 12mo, pp. 246. John C. 
Winston Co, 

GENERAL LITERATTJRE- 
In Peril of Change: Essays Written in Time of Tranquillity, 

By C. F. G. Masterman. M.A. 12mo, pp. 331. New York: 

B. W. Huebsch. $1.50 net. 
The Thread of Gold. By the author of " The Home of Quiet." 

8vo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 286, E. P. Dutton & Co. $3. net. 
Heroic Romances of Ireland. Trans, into English prose 

and verse, and edited, by -\. H. Leahy. Vol. 11.. completing 

the work. Large 8vo. uncut, pp. 161, London: David Xutt. 

BOOKS OF VERSE. 
Selections from the Poetry of John Payne. Made by 

Tracy and Lucy Robinson ; introduction by Lucy Robinson. 

With photogravure portrait, large 8vo, gilt top, uncut, 

pp. 224. John Lane Co. t2.50 net. 
New Collected Rhymes. By .Andrew Lang. 12mo, gilt top. 

uncut, pp. 101. Longmans, Green & Co. $1,25 net. 
The Collected Poems of Wilfred CampbelL 8vo, gilt top, 

uncut, pp, 351. Fleming H. Revell Co, tl.50 net. 
Poems of the Seen and the Unseen. By Charles Witham 

Herbert, 12mo, uncut, pp, 109. Oxford: B, H. BlackweU. 
Words of the Wood. By Ralcy Husted Bell. 12mo, uncut. 

pp, 87. Small. Maynard & Co. 
At the Grates of the Century. By Harry Lyman Koopman. 

16mo. uncut, pp. 88. Boston: Everett Press. 
Poems of Love and Nature. By Leonard A. Rickett. 16mo, 

gilt top, uncut, pp. 108. Longmans, Green & Co. $1.20 net. 
Dalmar, Daughter of the MUl, By Charles W. Ctmo. Illus., 

12mo. pp. 121. Denver: Reed Publishing Co. $1. 
Varied Voices from the Hose of Beech Bend. By William 

Helm Brashear. 12mo, pp. 255. Bowling Green. Ky. : Com- 
mercial Job Printing Co, 

FICTION. 
On the Field of Glory: An Historical Novel of the Time of 

King John Sobieski. By Henryk Sienkiewicz ; trans, from 

the Polish by Jeremiah Curtin. 12mo, pp. 334. Little, Brown 

&Co. $1.50. 
The Wheel of Life. By Ellen Glasgow. 12mo, pp. 474. Doo- 

bleday. Page & Co. $1.50. 
The Angel of Pain. By E. F. Benson. 12mo, pp. 364. J. B. 

Lippincott Co. $1.50. 



A Kaker of History. By E. Phillips Oppenheim. Illns., 

12mo, pp. Xo. Little, Brown & Co. $1.50. 
Double Trouble; or. Every Hero his Own Villain. By Herbert 

Quick. lUus., 12mo, pp. 320. Bobbs-Merrill Co. fc.50. 
Peter and Alexis : The Romance of Peter the Great. By 
Dmitri Merejkowski; authorized translation from the Rus- 
sian. 12mo, pp. 556. G, P, Putnam's Sons. $1.50. 
The Long Arm. By Samuel M, Gardenhire. Illus., 12iiio. pp. 
! 345. Harper & Brothers. $1.30. 

I Vronw Grobelaar and her Leading Cases. By Perceval 6ib- 
! bon. 12mo, pp. 293. McClure, Phillips & Co. $1 JO. 

' Barbara Winslow. SebeL By Elizabeth Ellis. Hlos., 12mo, 
pp. 406. Dodd, Mead & Co. $1.50. 
In Old Bellaire. By Mary DUlon. lUus.. 12mo, pp. 963. Cen- 
tury Co. $1.50. 
A Lost Cause. By Guy Thome. 12mo, pp.306. G. P. Putnam's 
Sons. $1.50, 
' The Sage Brush Parson. By A. B. Ward. 12mo, pp. 390. 
! Little, Brown St, Co. $1.50. 

Napoleon's Love Story : An Historical Romance. By Wao- 

' law Gasiorowski; trans, from the Polish by the Count de 

Soissons. 12mo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 455. E. P. Dutton & Co. 

$1.50. 

No. 101. By Wymond Carey. lUus., 12mo, pp. 378. G. P. 

Putnam's Sons. $1.50. 
The Weight of the Crown. By F. M. White. 12mo. pp. 319. 
R. F, Fenno & Co. $1.50. 
' The Castlecourt Diamond Case. By Geraldine Bonner. 
! With frontispiece, 12mo, pp, 223. Funk & Wagnalls Co. $1. 

j TRAVEL AND DESCRIPTION. 

I Flashlights in the Jangle : A Record of Hunting Adven- 
tures and of Studies in WUd Life in Equatorial East Africa. 
By C. G. Schillings. Authorized translation by Frederic 
Whyte : with introduction by Sir H. H. Johnston, G. C. M. G. 
nius.. large 8vo, gilt top. pp. 782. Doubleday, Page & Co. 
I $3.80 net. 

The Hiffh-Road of Empire : Water-Colour and Pen-and-ink 
Sketches in India. By A. H. Hallam Murray. HIus. in color, 
etc, 8vo, gilt top, pp. 453. E. P. Dutton & Co. $5. net. 

The Ghreat Plateau : Being an .\ccount of Exploration in 
CentralTibet, 1903, and of the Gartok Expedition. 1904-5. By 
Captain C. G. Rawling. Illus., 8vo, imcut, pp, 319. Long- 
mans, Green & Co. $5. 

New Egypt. By A. B. De Guerville. Dins, in photograynre. 
etc., large 8vo, pp. 360. E. P. Dutton & Co. $5. net. 

A Book of the Riviera. By S. Baring^Gould. nius., 12mo, 
gilt top. tmcut, pp, 320. E, P. Dutton & Co. $1.50 net. 

Sicily. By the late Augustus J. C. Hare and St. Clair Baddeley. 
nius., 16mo, gilt top. uncut, pp. 1^ E. P. Dutton & Co. $1. net. 

RELIGION AND THEOLOGY. 
Shinto (the Way of the Gods). By W. G. Aston, C.M.G. 8vo, 

pp. 390. Longmans, Green & Co. $2. net. 
The'Bible and Spiritual Criticism. By Arthur T. Piexson. 

12mo, pp. 276, Baker & Taylor Co. $1, net. 
The True Doctrine of Prayer. By Leander Chamberlain : 

with foreword by Rev, William R, Huntington, D.D. 12mo, 

gilt top, uncut, pp. 179. Baker & Taylor Co. $1. net. 
A Chnrch Calendar for 1906. Large 4to, pp. 61. Thomas 

Whittaker. 50 cts. 

POLITICS AND ECONOMICS. 



The Empire and the Century : A Series of Essays on Impe- 
rial Problems and Possibilities. By various writers; with 
introduction by Charles Sydney Goldman, and a poem by 
Rudyard Kiptog entitled " The Heritage." With maps, 
large Svo. gilt top. uncut, pp. 900. E. P. Dutton & Co. $6. net 

The Cost of Competition : An Effort at the Understanding 
of Familiar Facts. By Sidney A. Reeve, nius., 12mo, pp.617. 
McClure, Phillips & Co. $2. net. 

Modem Germany. By O, Elubacher. Svo, gilt top, imcut, 
pp, 346. E. P. I>utton & Co. $2.50 net. 

Quakerism and Politics. By Isaac Sharpless, LL.D. 12mo, 
gilt top, pp, 225, Ferris & Leach. 

ART AND MUSIC. 

Pre-Raphaelitism and the Pre>Raphaelite Brotherhood. 
By W. Holman Hunt. O.M. In 2 vols., illus. in photogra- 
vure, etc.. Svo. gilt tops, Macmillan Co. $10. net. 

Ne'wnes's Art Library. New vols.: Puvis de Chavannes, 
text by .\rsene Alexander ; Dante Gabriel Rossetti. text by 
Ernest Radford. Each illus. in photogravure, etc., large 8vo. 
Frederick Wame & Co. P» voL, $1.25. 



100 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 1, 



Baphael. By Julia Cartwright (Mrs, Ady). lUus., 24mo, gilt 

top, pp. 223. " Popular Library of Art." E. P. Button & Co. 

75 cts. net. 
Son?s and Airs by George Frlderic Handel. Edited by 

Ebenezer Prout. In 2 vols. : Vol. I. for high voice. Vol. II. 

for low voice. Large 4to. " Musician's Library." Oliver 

Ditson Ck). Per vol., paper $1.50, cloth $2.50. 

REFERENCE BOOKS. 
Foster's Complete Bridge. By R. F. Foster. 16mo, gilt edges. 

pp. 324. McClure, Phillips & Co. $1.50 net. 
A Portrait Catalogue of the Books Published by Houghton, 

Mifflin & Company. Illus. in photogravure, etc., large 8vo, 

pp. 267. The Riverside Press. 
The Development of Printing as an Art : A Handbook of 

the Exhibition in Honor of the Bi-Centenary of Franklin's 

Birth, Held at the Boston Public Library under the Auspices 

of the Society of Printers. 8vo, pp. 94. Published by the 

Society. Paper. 
Whittaker's Churchman's Almanac and Parochial List for 

1906. 12mo, pp. 450. Thomas Whittaker. Paper, 25 cts. 

EDUCATION. 

Elementary Latin Writing. By Clara B. Jordan. Withfront- 
tispiece, 12mo, pp. 270. American Book Co. $1. 

Longmans' English Classics. New vols: Franklin's Auto- 
biography, edited by William B. Cairns, Ph.D. ; Mrs. Gas- 
kell's Cranford, edited by Franklin T. Baker, A.M.; Select 
Poems of Browning, edited by Percival Chubb; Irving's 
Sketch-Book, with introduction by Brander Matthews, 
LL.D, and notes by Armour Caldwell, A.B. Each 12mo. 
Longmans, Green & Co. Per vol., 40 cts. 

Oxford Hodem French Series. New vols. : Charles Nodier's 
Jean Sbogar, edited by D. LI. Savory, B.A. ; Erckmann-Cha- 
trian's Histoire d'un Homme du Peuple, edited by R. E. A. 
Chessex, B.A. Each 12mo. Oxford University Press. 

Elements of German Grammar. By Thomas H. Jappe. 
12mo, pp. 132. American Book Co. 60 cts. 

In Field and Pasture. By Maude Barrows Button. Illus., 
12mo, pp. 190. American Book Co. 35 cts. 

Fishing and Hunting. By Sarah M. Mott and Maude Bar- 
rows Button. Illus., 12mo, pp. 127. American Book Co. 30 cts. 

lIISCEIiLANEOUS. 

The Country House: A Practical Manual of the Planning 
and Construction of the American Country Home and its 
Surroundings. By Charles Edward Hooper. Illus., 4to, gilt 
top, pp. 335. Boubleday, Page & Co. $3. net. 

Astronomical Series of the Publications of the University of 
Pennsylvania. New titles: Results of Observations with the 
Zenith Telescope of the Flower Astronomical Observatory, 
1901-3, by Charles R. Boolittle; Measures of 1066 Boubleand 
Multiple Stars Made with the Eighteen-Inch Refractor of the 
Flower Astronomical Observatory, by Eric Boolittle. Each 
large 4to, uncut. John C. Winston Co. Paper. 

Metamorphose. By Orlando K. Fitzsimmons. With portrait, 
12mo, uncut, pp. 254. Progress Publishing Co. $2. 

A Mother's Year. Compiled by Helen Rxiss Stough. Illus., 
12mo, gilt top, pp. 215. Fleming H. Revell Co. $1.25 net. 

My System. By J. P. Mviller ; authorized translation by G. M. 
Fox-Bavies. Illus., 8vo, pp. 90. G. E. Stechert & Co. Paper, 
75 cts. net. 

The Philosophy of Egoism. By James L. Walker. With por- 
trait, large 8vo, pp. 76. Benver: Katharine Walker, 75 cts. 



Authors' 
agency 

Mention The Dial. R 



Fifteenth Yeab. Candid, suggestive 
Criticism, literary and technical Re- 
vision, Advice, Disposal. MSS. of all 
kinds. Instruction. References: 
Mrs. Burton Harrison, W. D. Howells, 
Mrs. Julia Ward Howe, Thomas 
Nelson Page. Mrs. Mary E. Wilkins 
Freeman, and others. Send stamp 
for Booklet to WM. A. DRESSER, 
. 7, 400 Broadway, Cambridge, Mass. 



ROOkT^ ALL OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS SUPPLIED, 

i-^yjy^i^'J' no matter on what subject. Write us. We can get 
you any book ever published. Please state wants. Catalogue free. 
BAKER'S GREAT BOOK-SHOP, 14-16 Bright St., Bibmimoham, Ens. 



FOR ANY BOOK ON EARTH write to H. H. TIMBY, 

Book Hunter. Catalogues free. 1st Nat. Bank Bldg., Conneaut.O. 



STORY- WRITERS, Biographers, Historians, Poets — Do 

-^— ^^^^^^^^^^^^^— you desire the honest criticism of your 
book, or its skilled revision and correction, or advice as to publication T 
Such work, said Oeorge William Curtis, is " done as it should be by The 
Easy Chair's friend and fellow laborer in letters, Dr. Titus M. Coan." 
Terms by agreement. Send for circular D, or forward your book or MS. 
to the New York Bureau of Revision, 70 Fifth Ave., New York. 

An Important New Book on the Bible 

THE EVOLUTION OF A GREAT LITERATURE 

Natural History of the Jewish and Christian Scriptures. By NEWTON 

MANN. One vol , 5 x 8 inches, 381 pp., S1.50 net, postage 15 cents. 

[Synopses of Chapters will be sent on request.] 

" This book by Newton Mann should be read as fearlessly as it has 

been written. Truth is the only thing that will really save the world. 

The entire biblical literature comes under review and is always treated 

fairly. A work remarkable for its clearness and candor. All religious 

bodies must move up to its position. The coming generation should 

be taught what the Bible really is. "— i^Vom a column review in the 

Boston Transcript. 

JAMES H. WEST CO. : PUBLISHERS : BOSTON 

Unwritten Meanings of Words 

By the author of Erbes' "Brain Book." Its new — physical — prin- 
ciple lays bare the heretofore elusive, unwritten Meanings of sounds 
and words. It simplifies Definitions and Good English. The first scien- 
tific, practical guide to word mastery ; to their choice for " reason 
why " or for emotional and psychic effects ; to acquiring languages, 
A book for talk which make* good. $2.00, mailed. 
PROMETHEAN PUBG. CO., 622 North Rockwell Street, Chicago, lil. 



EPIGRAMS 

We make a specialty of issuing books of Epigrams. 
Writers having collections of Epigrams are in- 
vited to submit MS. : : Address Bepartment C. 

BROADWAY PUBLISHING COMPANY 
835 BROADWAY NEW YORK CITY 



NEW YORK : 

27 & 29 West 23d St. 



Q. P. PUTNAM'S SONS 

LIBRARY AGENTS 



LONDON: 
24 Bedford St., Strand 



MESSRS. PUTNAM have peculiar facilities for handling all library business intelligently and to the 
best advantage of their customers. 
Their Branch House in London (through which they receive English orders for American books) 
enables thein to supply, promptly, English books, without the commission usually paid by American dealers. 
Their extensive miscellaneous and retail business makes it practicable to buy all books at the lowest 
prices, to carry a large stock of standard books in every department of literature, and to keep in touch 
with the current publications of the day. Their business experience covers more than half a centmy. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



101 



FRANKLIN'S BOYHOOD 

From the Autobiography; Franklin's letters on War and 
Peace and his Plan for Western Colonies are just added 
to the Old South Leaflets, Nos. 161-163. 

No. 9, The Plan of Union, 1754, is another Franklin 
leaflet. 

Price, 5 cents a copy. 

Send for complete lists. 



DIRECTORS OF OLD SOUTH WORK 

Old South Meeting House 
WASHINQTON STREET, BOSTON 



Importing Notice 

\X/E beg to announce that we have greatly extended 
' ' our facilities for the importation of English 
books, so that we now are equipped to fill orders of 
this sort with the greatest efficiency and intelligence. 
Promptness, good serrice, and low prices will role 
in this department, as they do in all our boslneas. 



THE BAKER & TAYLOR CO., whousau Bookstiurt 

33-37 Ernst 17th St.. Union Sq. North. New Yorlc 



In Peril of Change 

Essays Written in Time of TranquiUity 

By C. F. G. MASTERMAN, M. A. 

Fellow of ChritVt College, Cambridge 

" He is chiefly interested in literature as it relates to life, 
and has a singular gift for sifting the false from the true 
and interpreting art in the larger terms of Ufe. ... Of the 
brilliant group of ' literary ' journalists in London, he i>er- 
haps most happily combines soundness and seriousness of 
view with high literary quality. He can be serious without 
being prosy, sparkling without popping paradoxes."— r7i« 
Globe < New York). 

12mo, 331 [Niffes, net $1.50, postage 12 cents. 



B. W. HUEBSCH 



- NEW YORK 



THE COMPLETE WRITINGS OF 

ALFRED DE MUSSET 

lUustrated, large paper edition, in 
Ten Volumes. 
**A. writer who h>8 endowed our language with admirable 
poetry, the brother of Lamartine, of Hugo, and of Bjron, a 
■oraliat rivaling PreToat, Balne, and Oeorge Sand; a dramatiat 
who, m ooe act, haa made the Comedie Fran;aue earn more 
money than we give it in six months ; one of those thinker* 
who baa never once sacrificed the dignity of art to the ambition* 
of fortune and position." ALEXANDRE DUHA8. 

BOOKLET MAILED OS APPLICATION 

EDWIN C. HILL COMPANY 

160 FIFTH AVENUE NEW YORK CITY 



AN INDISPENSABLE BOOK FOR EYERY READER 



COME of the most notable things which distinguished 
*^ writers of the nineteenth century have said in praise of 
books and by way of advice as to what books to read are 
here reprinted. Every line has something golden in it. — 
Netv Tork Times Saturday Revienu. 

A NY one of the ten authors represented would be a safe 
■**• guide, to the extent of the ground that he covers ; but 
the whole ten must include very nearly everything that can 
judiciously be said in regard to the use of books. — Hartford 
Courant. 

"THE editor shows rare wisdom and good sense in his selec- 
tions, which are uniformly helpful. — Boston Transcript. 

"THERE is so much wisdom, so much inspiration, so much 
that is practical and profitable for every reader in these 
pages, that if the literary impulse were as strong in us as the 
religious impulse is in some people we would scatter this 
little volume broadcast as a tract. — New Tork Commercial 
Ad-vertiser. 



Words of good coun- 
sel ON THE CHOICE AND 
USE OF BOOKS, SELECTED 
FROM TEN FAMOUS 
AUTHORS OF THE I9TH 
CENTURY. 

I 

Beautifully Printed 

AT THE 

Merrymount Press 

Ked cloth., gilt top., uncut., 

80 cts. net. 
Half calf or half morocco., 

$2.00 net. 



A. C. McCLURG & CO., PUBLISHERS, CHICAGO 



102 


THE 


DIAL [Feb. 1, 






William R. Jenkins 

851 & 853 Sixth Ave. (cor. 48th St.), N. Y. 
No Branch Stores 


T^he Popular Line 

with three elegant trains each way 
between Chicago and 

LaFayette, Ind. 
Indianapolis, Ind. 
Cincinnati, Ohio 

Louisville, Kentucky 

and all points in the 

South and South East 

is the 

Rig Four Route 

Buffet Parlor Cars or Dining Cars on day trains, 
and Pullman's finest compartment and standard 
sleepers on night trains. All trains run solid, 
Chicago to Cincinnati. For reservations, etc., 
call on or address 

I. P. SPINING, 

General Northern 
Agent 

238 South Clark Street Chicago 


Choice 

French 

Calendars 

for 1906 

With daily quotations from 
the best French authors at 
price8-40c., 50c., 60c., 75c., 
$1.00, «1 25, and 81.50, each, 
postpaid. 


A List of 

French Books 

suitable for Holiday Gifts will be 
sent free when requested ; also 
complete catalogues of all French 
Books if desired. 




The STUDEBAKER 

Stint art0 ^ttHdinff 

Michigan Boulevard, between Congress and 
Van Buren Streets, Chicago. 

HENRY W. SAVAGE OFFERS 
The Dainty, Delightful Korean Comic Opera 

THE 

SHO = QUN 

By QEORQE ADE and QUSTAV LUDERS 




1 






1906] THE DIAL 103 



THE "MAGAZINE PROBLEM" SOLVED 

What 's in the Magazines 

A MONTHLY GUIDE AND INDEX TO THE 
CONTENTS OF THE CURRENT PERIODICALS 



CIt is the purpose of this little publication to make the mass of current magazine 
literature accessible to the every-day reader, — to show just what the leading peri- 
odicals contain and to indicate the general character and scope of the principal 
articles. It is not a library index, — there are no confusing abbreviations or cross- 
references. The arrangement is of the simplest and most convenient sort, to meet the 
needs of the average busy reader. Each issue presents a bird's-eye view of the maga- 
zines of the month, that will give one in five minutes the information hitherto to be 
obtained only by long and tedious examination of contents-pages on the news-stands. 



WHAT SOME READERS THINK OF IT 

" I am enthusiastic over your Magazine Guide. It is " Tour Magazine Index is a genuine inspiration, and 

exactly what I have wanted for a long time and what I I am sure will be welcomed." — Emily Huntington 

have tried at different times to get. It will enable one Milxkr, Englewood, N. J. 

to strike a happy medium between ignoring the map- .. .^his is the thing « I long have sought, and mourned 

zmes alto^ther and spending one s tune on them. - ^^^ j ^^^^ j^ ^^^,, y^^^^^^^ individual nor family 

Professor F. H. Hodder, Lmversity of Kansas. ^^ ^ ^^^^ ^ ^^ ^^^^^^ j^ To be sure it is a guide 

" The announcement of your new enterprise gave me to one's pocket-book as well as to the magazines, for we 

great satisfaction. I have for some time been wanting, shaU have to spend twice or thrice as much upon them 

needing to search the magazines for a special purpose, with this alluring presentation of their charms. But 

and the attempt was simply discouraging. Readers even so you are giving us a treasure and we congratn- 

who wish to know all that would interest them in the late ourselves and you." — Lydia Avery Coonley 

magazine world wUl owe you a debt of gratitude." Wabd, Chicago. 

- Mary Agnes Tincker, Boston. „ j ^^^ j^^^ ^^ ^^^^ ^^^ ^^^^ ^ ^^^ ^^^^ ^ 

"I am delighted with 'What's in the Magazines.' published, and many of my correspondents have — 

It is what I have felt the need of, and I congratulate especially within the past five or six years — inquired 

you on its promise. I do not subscribe for more than whether there was any publication of that kind. I see 

one or two monthly magazines by the year, and I shall no need of improvement of the excellent plan itself." — 

be glad to avail myself of this new help in selecting Wilxiam A. Dresser, The Authors' Agency, Boston. 

particular numbers for each month." — John A. M. ,, rrn ait • r' -j u u c^^ i * ij. 

u T^T^iro-iAr Hie new Magazme Gmde should nil a long-felt 

ZiEGLER, D.D., Kansas Litv, Mo. ^ t jvjau vi.*vu* * 

' ' * ' want. I wonder nobody thought of it before, for we 

" ' ^Tiat 's in the Magazmes ' can be made one of have all of us felt the need year after year of just that 

the indispensables for a very large class of editorial thing, which would show us at a glance just what we 

and professional workers." — Edwin S. Potter, Editor wished to see and where to find it." — Dr. Garrett 

Universal News Analysis, Xew York. Xewkirk, Pasadena, Cal. 



OpPQIAl For a limited period, "WHAT'S IN THE MAGAZINES" will 
^i^^^_.-_ be sent to any reader of this advertisement for one year on 

V^ I I ti im receipt of 25 cents in stamps or currency. Specimen copy free. 



THE DIAL COMPANY PUBLISHERS FINE ARTS BUILDING, CHICAGO 



104 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 1, 1906. 



Scholars - Librarians - Students 



A NDREWS' AMERICAN LAW A treatise on 

^^ the Jarisprudence, Constitution, and Laws of 
the United States. By J. D. Andrews. 1 vol. 
$6.50 net. 

/^OOLEY'S BLACKSTONE.— Commentaries on 
^-^ the Laws of England. In four books. By Sir 
William Blackstone. With a translation of all 
foreign words and phrases appearing in the text; 
also a full table of abbreviations and some consid- 
erations regarding the study of law. By Hon. 
T. M. CooLEY. Fourth Edition. Revised by J. D. 
Andrews. 2 vols. $9.00 net. 

CURRAN'S SPEECHES. — The speeches of 
John Philpot Curran while at the Bar. With 
Memoir, Introduction, and Explanatory Notes. By 
A. L. Whittier. Second Edition. 1 vol. Cloth, 
92.50; sheep, $3.00. 

CRSKINE'S SPEECHES. — The Speeches of 
^ Lord Erskine while at the Bar. With Por- 
trait, Memoir, and Notes. By James L. High. 
Second Edition. 4 vols. Cloth, 86.00 net; sheep, 
$8.00. 

CREUND'S THE POLICE POWER Embrac- 

^ ing Public Policy, Constitutional Rights, and 
American Constitutional Law. By Ernst Freund. 
1 vol. $6.00 net. 

GOODNOW'S SELECTED CASES ON THE 
LAW OF TAXATION. By Frank J. 
GooDNOW. 1 vol. $5.00 net. 

HOWARD'S HISTORY LOUISIANA PUR- 
CHASE, — By James Q. Howard. Author- 
ized Edition. 1 vol. Buckram, $1.50 net. 

JAMESON'S CONSTITUTIONAL CONVEN- 
•J TIONS. — The History, Powers, and Modes 
of Proceedings of Constitutional Conventions. By 
John A. Jameson. Fourth Edition. $5.00 net. 

MARSHALL'S ANNOTATED CONSTITU- 
TIONAL DECISIONS AND WRITINGS. 
— By George M. Ci ay. Handsomely bound. 
1 vol. Cloth, $4,00 net; sheep, $5.00 net. 

PRENTICE AND EGAN'S THE COMMERCE 
CLAUSE OF THE FEDERAL CONSTITU- 
TION An Exposition of the Law on a Subject 

of Extensive and Increasing Importance, By E, 
Parmalee Prentice and John G. Eqan, 1 vol, 
$5.00 net. 



DOSCHER'S POLITICAL ECONOMY. — The 
^ ^ Science of Political Economy Historically 
Treated. By Wilhelm Roscher, 2 vols. Cloth, 
$6.00. 

RUSSELL'S POLICE POWER OF THE 
STATE— And Decisions Thereon, as Illus- 
trating the Development and Value of Case Law. 
By Alfred Russell. 1 vol. Buckram, $2.50 net. 

"TAYLOR'S INTERNATIONAL LAW, — The 
^ Origin and Growth of International Public Law, 
By Hannis Taylor, 1 vol. Sheep, $6.50 net. 

T^HORPE'S CONSTITUTIONAL HISTORY,— 
^ The Constitutional History of the United States 
for the period from 1765 to 1895, with Maps, Tables, 
and Original Documents Reprinted. By Francis 
Newton Thorpe. 3 vols. Cloth, $7,50 net. 

TRUCKER'S CONSTITUTION OF THE 
* UNITED STATES A Critical Discussion of 

its Genesis, Development, and Interpretation, By 

John Randolph Tucker, Edited by Henry St, 

George Tucker. 2 vols. Cloth, $7.00 net; sheep, 

$8.00 net. 

yON HOLST'S CONSTITUTIONAL LAW OF 
^ THE UNITED STATES.— By Dr. H, von 

HoLST, Authorized Edition, Translated by A. B, 

Mason, Cloth, $2.00 net. 

\/0N HOLST'S CONSTITUTIONAL AND 
^ POLITICAL HISTORY OF THE UNITED 
STATES OF AMERICA, — The Political and 
Constitutional History of the United States of 
America. By Dr, H, voN Holst. 8 vols. Cloth, 
$12.00 net. 

\X7APLES' PARLIAMENTARY LAW. — A 
' " Hand- Book on Parliamentary Law and Prac- 
tice. By RuFUS Waples, Second Edition. 12mo, 
cloth, $1.00, 

WILGUS' UNITED STATES STEEL COR- 
PORATION.— Its Formation, Charter, By- 
Laws, and Management, together with a Thorough 
Inquiry Concerning its Stock, Legality, Industrial 
Position, etc. By H, L. Wilgus, 1 vol. Buckram, 
$2 50 net. 

WILSON'S WORKS ON JURISPRUDENCE 
AND GOVERNMENT, —The Public Ad- 
dresses and Lectures, on the Nature of Law and 
Government, By James Wilson, Edited by James 
De Witt Andrews, 2 vols. Cloth, $7.00 net; 
sheep, $8.00 net. 



DESCRIPTIVE ANNOUNCEMENTS ON REQUEST 

CALLAGHAN & COMPANY-CHICAGO 



THE DIAL PKB8S, PINE ARTS BUILDINO, CHICAOO 



Public Library, 



<: 



:lif/^FNC&J^ 



THETDIAL 

Jl SEMI-MONTHLY JOURNAL OF 

^ilcrarB Crilitbm, gismssion, antr ditformation. 



Editkd by 
FRANCIS F. BROWNE 



} ^in/ ""' CHICAGO, FEB. 16, 1906. '%['alear"' { 



Fine Arts Building 
203 Michiiran Blvd. 



GEORGE SANTAYANA'S THE LIFE OF REASON 



Each Volume $1.25 net, postage extra 



REASON IN COMMON SENSE 

" To find a philosopher who can express himself as well as 
think is delightful and rare." — London Academy. 

REASON IN RELIGION 

" He has the unusual gift of being able to make literature 
out of philosophy without finding it necessary to dilute the 
latter in the process."— TVie Dial. 



REASON IN SOCIETY 

"A remarkable achievement. He is a poet and a man of 
letters, as well as a philosopher." — London Spectator. 

REASON IN ART 

" He is really a great psychologist. Every thought he 
touches upon is laid bare in its essential characteristic." 

— Boston Transcript. 



Just Published : REASON IN SCIENCE 

This is the fifth and concluding volume in this most notable series, of which the yation said : 
" Literature as well as philosophy is the richer by his work. There can be no more doubt that the philosophy is profound 
than that the literature is beautiful." 



THE PHILOSOPHY OF RELIGION 

By GEORGE TRUMBULL LADD, LL.D. 

2 vols., $7.00 net, postage extra 

The culmination of the psychological and philosophical 
works of Professor Ladd. 

THE DEVELOPMENT OF PALESTINE 
EXPLORATION 

By FREDERICK JONES BLISS 
$1.50 net, postage extra 

A vivid and accurate account of exploration and explorers 
in Palestine and Syria. 

A HISTORY OF EGYPT 

By JAMES H. BREASTED 
Illustrated, $5.00 net, postage 36 cents 

"A most valuable and interesting wor'k."— Independent. 

A STUDY OF THE HISTORY OF MUSIC 

By EDWARD DICKINSON $2.50 net, post. 24 cts. 

"Almost unique in its clearness of statement and general 
u- fulness." — Ttte Xation. 



THE PROBLEM OF THE OLD 
TESTAMENT 

By JAMES ORR $1.50 net 

This book was awarded the Bross prize of $6,000 in 1905. 
A masterly and illuminating discussion of this problem. 

THE APOSTOLIC AGE IN THE LIGHT 
OF MODERN CRITICISM 

By JAMES HARDY ROPES 
$1.50 net, postage extra 

An able and scholarly work on this period, intended for 
laymen as well as scholars. 

THE APPROACH TO PHILOSOPHY 
By RALPH B. PERRY $1.50 net 

" He has a wide and accurate knowledge of the history of 
philosophy." — Xeic York Times. 

THE CITY: The Hope of Democracy 

By FREDERICK C. HOWE 

$1.50 net, postage 13 cents 

"A book that should challenge universal attention." 

— Overland JS'etcs. 



NEW 



THE LAST SPIKE 



And Other Railroad Stories 

By CY WARMAN $1.25 

" The stories show thorough knowledge of the people and 
things written about and give an excellent picture of all 
phases of life on the rail, from the yard and roundhouse to 
the pathfinders in advance of the construction gang on the 
Union Pacific."— .Yfc York Eveninfi Post. 



FICTION 

THE DAWN OF A TOMORROW 

By FRANCES HODGSON BURNETT 

With eight Illustrations in color. $1.00 

This story, which created an extraordinary impression while 
running as a serial in Seribner's Magazine, in a series of 
intensely dramatic situations, shows the influence upon the 
depressed and hopeless of a successful belief in the effectual 
power of Christianity. The story has the note of genius. 



CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS PUBLISHERS NEW YORK 



106 THE DIAL [Feb. 16, 



NELSON'S New Century Library 

IS BECOMING MORE POPULAR EVERY TEAB 

The works of the best authors have never been obtainable in a form so elegant. 
New style ^,^0 Large novels formerly requiring two bulky ,^^^k ^id style 

complete in mKB volumes are issued in one handsome book, 
One Volume ^^H not thicker than a monthly magazine and 

of pocket size — 6/4 x 4/4 inches, yet the 

size of the type is not reduced. 





Type ssme Size in WE HAVE JUST ADDED 
Both 

SHAKESPEARE'S WORKS 

Complete in Six Volumes. Bound in red cloth and red limp leather, gilt top and gUt back, with frontispiece. 
Without doubt the daintiest set of Shakespeare on the market. The type is long primer bold face. You have to 
examine these volumes to appreciate their merits. 

The new Century Library contains the complete works of 

DICKENS, THACKERAY, SCOTT 

and selected works of the best authors. The size is so convenient that you can hold them in the hand 
when reading and carry them in your pocket or satchel to read on the train, and a volume is so small and light 
that you never know it is there. 

Prices — $1.00, $1.25, $1.50 — according to tlie style of binding. 

New volumes are constantly being added. Complete catalogue sent on application to 

THOMAS NELSON & SONS, Publishers, 37 East 18th Street, New York 



THE MOST COMPLETE THE MOST EXHAUSTIVE 

THE VARIORUM EDITION OF 

SHAKESPEARE 

Edited by HORACE HOWARD FURNESS 

THIS edition, prepared by the ablest living Shakesperian scholar, has been received everywhere with the greatest 
possible favor, and has been considered by all critics as the most exhaustive work on Shakespeare's plays. For 
the study of the plays Mr. Fumess's edition is invaluable. It is without question the most complete in existence, 
the editor having taken advantage of the labors of all former Shakespearian scholars, English, French, and Gterman. 



" These monumental volumes are the admiration of every true student of Shakespeare," says Dr. William Aldis Wright 
THE FOURTEEN VOLUMES WHICH HAVE THUS FAR APPEARED ARE 

IVIacbeth, Revised Edition by Romeo and Juliet The Winter's Tale 

Horace Howard FuRNEss, Jk. The Tempest Twelfth IMight 

King Lear A Midsummer Night's Dream Much Ado About Nothing 

Othello As You Like it Love's Labour's Lost 

The Merchant of Venice Hamlet (Two volumes) (Postage, 30 cents extra) 

Royal Octavo, gilt top, uncut edges, $4.00 net per volume. Half morocco, gilt top, 

$5.00 net per volume. 

J. B. LIPPINCOTT COMPANY, Publishers, Philadelphia 



1906.] THE DIAL lOT 



BOOKS OF PERMANENT VALUE 



New Edition Now Ready 

THE LIFE OF CHARLES LAMB 

By E. V. LUCAS, Editor of the " Works and Letters of Charles and Mary Lamb." 
Tv3o volumes. 8vo. 50 Illustrations. Net $6.00. 

"A perfect book about Charles Lamb, his sister, and his friends. ... A biography which, for its comprehensiveness 
as a record, its store of anecdote, its sympathetic tone, and its winning style, promises to rank as a classic." 

— yew York Tribune. 

'"We finish the book, not with a note of admiration after a brilliant display of rhetoric, but with a quiet sigh of 
unfeigned sorrow at a forced parting from a very dear friend. . . . This is perhaps the greatest triumph of the biographer, 
who is a man after Lamb's own heart and one of his own best pupils. . . . The biography contains a wealth of entertain- 
ment which it would be difficult to overestimate." — London Time*. 

THE LIFE OF GOETHE 

By ALBERT BIELSCHOWSKY. Authorized translation from the German by William A. Coopkb, 

Assistant Professor of German in Leland Stanford Jr. University. 

To be in 3 volumes. Illustrated, large 8vo. Each $S 50 net. 

Vol. I. From Birth to the Return from Italy. Now Ready. 

" Bielschowsky's life deserves a place with Boswell's and Lockhart's and the other gfreat biographies. The narrative 
form is maintained throughout, and the book reads like a story, the first volume at least like a most romantic one." 

—Xew York Globe. 

"No biography of Goethe has taken the place that Bielschowsky's may fairly <daim. ... A definitive Goethe 
biography."— TTie Dial. 

LOUIS XIV. AND LA GRANDE MADEMOISELLE 

By ARVEDE BARINE. 

Authorized English Version. 8vo. Fully illustrated. Net $S.OO. {By mail, $3JS5.) 

" Mme. Barine has made her heroine's strange personality so vivid and individual, and has entered so thoroughly 
into the spirit of her mad vagaries and misguided impulses, that the narrative has all the vivacity of fiction, though at 
the same time its historical care and accuracy are evident at every turn. . . . Altogether, she has written a delightful 
study of a fascinating epoch." — TTie Dial. 

THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE EUROPEAN NATIONS 

1870-1900 

By J. HOLLAND ROSE. Two volumes, large 8vo, with maps. Net $5.00. 

A discussion by a scholar of authority of those events which had a distinct formative influence upon the development 
of European States during the latter part of the nineteenth century, a period remarkable because of the great progress 
made by the people of Europe in their effort to secure a larger measure of political freedom for the individual, and the 
Intimate development of the nation. 

THE UPTON LETTERS 

By T. B. (Arthur C. Benson). 16mo. Net 81.25. 

" To those <rf us who. with Stevenson, pray for the quiet mind, the Upton Letters should serve as a help. . . . Simple, 
natural, sane, and human, these reflective utterences on literary, moral, and edncational themes, and on the common- 
places of daily life, have the charm that belongs to the genuine expression of a good man and a good heart. . . . The little 
volume will create no sensation (heaven forbid!), but it wiU greatly content a choice few among the readers of books." 

—T?ieDial. 

Ready Shortly 

FROM A COLLEGE WINDOW 

By T. B. (Arthur C. Benson). 

This latest book is a frank outpouring of the author's intimate thoughts, a frank expression of what he prizes in life 
and what he expects from Ufe. Mr. Benson's papers are characterized by the intimacy of aelf-revelation, the allosiveness, 
and the sense of overflow that belong to the familiar essay at its best. 

At all Booksellers G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS New York and London 



108 THE DIAL [Feb. 16, 1906. 



Important New Macmillan Books 



JUST READY 

Mr. Eden Phillpott's rieiv novel The Portreeve 

" Strong in the expression of power and passion ; in a tense hold on the sympathy tliat never relaxes, 
and in the creation of sitnations compelling in their force and handled with skill and vigor." 

Clolh, $1.50. 

Efficiency and Relief a Programme of Social Work 

By Edward T. Devine, Ph.D., LL.D., Schiff Professor of Social Economy in Columbia 
University; author of " Principles of Relief," etc.; Director of the New York School of Philanthropy. 

Cloth, 16mOf 75 cents net (^postage 5 cents). 

The Life of Lord Randolph Churchill 
By Winston Spencer Churchill, m.p. 

" Here is a book which is' certainly among the two or three most exciting political biographies in the 
language." — London Times Literary Supplement. Two octavo volumes, with portraits, etc., $9.00 net. 

THE SECOND EDITION OF 

Salve Venetia ! Gleanings from History 

By Mr. F. Marion Crawford, illustrated by joseph pennell. 

Tivo volumes in a box, crown 8vo, $5.00 net. Carriage extra. 
" It creates the atmosphere and ineffable charm of Venice better than any book I have ever read." 
— E. L. Shuman, Chicago Record-Herald. 

Pre-Raphaelitism and the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood 

By William Holman Hunt, author of « The Life of WilUamson," etc. 
" At last there is set before the world the book which has been none too patiently waited for for many 
years past, and an absorbing, interesting, and valuable book it is, fluently and admirably written, and 
on its lighter side vastly entertaining. . . . Likely to survive as long as English art is treasured and 
studied." — Daily Graphic, London. Ttco volumes. Richly illustrated. $10 net. Carriage extra. 

A History of the Inquisition of Spain 

By Henry Charles Lea, LL.D. in four volumes, Svo, to be issued at intervals of about 
six months. The price of Volume I., 620 pp., $2.50 net. 

The recognized importance of Dr. Lea's " History of the Middle Ages," which ha,s been translated 
into both French and German, gives assurance that this work will take a permanent position as an 
authoritative and dispassionate account of an institution which possesses perennial interest. 

Mr. B. L. Putnam=Weale's The Re=Shaping of the Far East 

By the author of <'Manchu and Muscovite" 

Illustrated from fine photographs. Two volumes, $6.00 net. 
" It is emphatically a work without which the libi'ary of a student of the Far Eastern question will be 
incomplete." — Daily Telegraph, London. 

" His wide knowledge of political conditions tlrroughout the Asiatic world is supplemented by keen 
insight and a vivacity of logic that rivet your respectful attention." — New York Herald. 

Mr. Henry George, Jr.'s 

The Menace of Privilege cioth, i2mo, $1.50 net, postage is cents. 

" With the clearest logic he shows what the real remedy is and what the true line of advance must 
be." — Ernest Crosby. 

"The book is a valuable contribution to the discussions of the day and must be useful for reference." 
— William Lloyd Garrison. 

THE MACMILLAN COMPANY, PUBLISHERS, 64=66 FIFTH AVE., NEW YORK 



THE DIAL 

a Sctni^fHontfjlg 3outnaI of iiterarg Criticism, Dtsnissifln, anlj lEnfonnation, 



EXTEBED AT THE CHICAGO POSTOFFICE AS SECO>-I>-CLASS MATTER 
BY THE DIAL COMPAJTy, PCBUSHBBS 

.Vo. 47^. FEBRUARY 16, 1906. Vol. XL. 

Contexts. 

PAOB 

A POINT OF DEPARTURE 109 

THE DELIGHTJS OF DsDISCRDIINATE READ- 
ING. Percy F. Bicknell Ill 

COiDR'NTCATION 112 

A Final Word aboat Mr. Swinburne as "a Love 
Poet." Henry S. Pancoast. 

PRE-RAPHAEUTISM FROM A NTIW ANGLK 

Edith Kellogg Dunton 113 

A NEW HISTORY OF EDUCATION. Edward O. 

Sisson 116 

TWO AMERICAN MEN OF LETTERS. W. E. 

Simonds 119 

AN OXFORD HISTORY OF ENGLAND. St. George 

L. Sioussat 122 

RECENT AilERICAN POETRY. William Morton 

Payne 12-5 

Collected Sonnets of Lloyd Mifflin. — The Poems of 
Tmmbull Stickney. — Gilders In the Heights. — 
Cawein"s The Vale of Tempe. — Lodge's The Great 
Adventure. — Sands's The Valley of Dreams. — Wat- 
son's Old I..amps and New. — Bayne's Perdita. — 
Givler's Poems. — Sherman and Scollard's A South- 
em Flight. — Scott's New World Lyrics and Bal- 
lads. — Collected Poems of Wilfred Campbell. 

BRIEFS ON NTIW BOOKS 128 

A contribution to the study of Dutch painting. — 
A practical believer in the Golden Rule. — A monu- 
mental edition of GSeorg^e Herbert. — Experiences 
with a self-supporting country home. — More of 
Sainte-Beuve's " Portraits " in English. — A New- 
England physician of the old school. — The idolatry 
of wealth in America. — Authoritative chapters on 
the vocal art. — Romance and history of an Italian 
valley. — Shall the earth be kept still habitable ? — 
The history of our smallest commonwealth. — Leg- 
ends of the Italian saints. 

NOTES 132 

LIST OF NTIW BOOKS 133 



A POINT OF DE PARTURE. 

^Ir. Lang once remarked, in his airy way, 
tliat the man who really cares for books reads 
them all. This, we believe, was said a propos 
of .some discussion or other about the '* hundred 
best books," or alwut '• courses of reading," or 
about •' the pursuit of literature as a means of 
cidture." The theme has many names and guises, 
but in all of them it remains the same old theme. 
The anxious inquirer, when he seeks counsel of 
the pimdits as to how he may save the literary 



soul within him (assuming that he has such an 
organ), is given lists of books, that he by no 
means wants to read, and well-worn tags, dated 
from Bacon to Ruskin, upon the philosophy of 
the subject. Despairing of these abstract instruc- 
tions, he suppresses his budding aspirations, and 
falls stolidly back upon the diet of hiLsks so 
freely, and in some aspects so alluringly, set 
before him by the public prints of the day. 

The young man or woman who has been the 
victim of systematic literary instruction in the 
schools is in little better case. He has been 
supplietl with critical standards, but they con- 
stitute to him no more than a barren f ormidary ; 
he has read the history of literature, which may 
have stored his memory with names and titles, 
but has not enriched him with spiritual gifts. 
Stretched upon the Procrustean bed of literary 
study, his members have lost their freedom of 
action, or have been ruthlessly lopped off because 
they did not fit the structure. The annals of 
dead and alien periods have been displayed 
before a mind quivering with ^'ital imprdses, and 
his interest in the poets has been suppressed by 
the historical and philological pedantries which 
their proper study entails, as he is given to 
understand it. That literature might yet become 
for him the very bread of life is the last thought 
with which he lays aside the books which have 
presented it to him in so unsympathetic and 
repellant a fashion. 

What may be done to save the soul thus so 
nearly lost? The question is one of the most 
serious ones possible, and whoever succeeds in 
finding the right answer to it is sure of both 
appreciation and gratitude. Probably the first 
delusion to be dismissed is that any one answer, 
or even any hundred answers, will prove ade- 
quate. The matter is one for individual diag- 
nosis and prescription, not for the application 
of general rides. Or rather, this delusion, rightly 
viewed, is the synthesis of all the special delu- 
sions that take the form of book-lists, and study- 
courses, and cidture-sy stems. As for !Mr. Lang's 
easy dictum, that is obWously a counsel of per- 
fection for the few, a petitio principii for the 
many. The problem is not how to deal with 
those who tndy care for books — they may 
safely l>e left to their own explorations — but 
how to help those who might learn to care for 
books under sj-mpathetic and intelligent guid- 



110 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 16, 



anee. And it must frankly be admitted that a 
considerable fraction of those upon whom the 
experiment may be made will be found finally 
incapable of anything like a genuine love for 
literature, even when we frame a highly catholic 
definition of that expression. This atrophy of 
facidty is, however, in many cases more apparent 
than real, and it behooves us all to do what we 
can to promote the activity of the function when 
its failure is the result of either early abuse or 
lack of opportunity. 

We make no claim of profundity for such 
suggestions as we have to offer for the suitable 
treatment of these patients, and shall be quite 
satisfied if our remarks rescue a few young 
people here and there from the malpractice under 
which they have suffered hitherto. The heart 
of every person of sensibility goes out toward 
the many unfortimates who, under the impres- 
sion that they are acquiring cvdture, and that 
the value of the acquisition must be proportional 
to the painf ulness of the effort, are to-day toiling 
with artificially-planned courses of reading, or 
plodding through such formidable works as 
Grote's " History of Greece " and Carlyle's 
"Frederick the Great" and Ruskin's "Modern 
Painters " — to say nothing of such works as 
the " Mahabharata " and the " Kalevala " and 
the " Niebelungenlied," which choice exotics 
invariably blossom in the " gay parterre " of 
every conspectus of the world's best literature 
as recommended for earnest minds. Something- 
better than this, surely, it is within the jwwer 
of ordinary intelligence to conunend and urge ; 
the case calls for homely simples far more than 
it does for the ransacking of the pharmacopoeia 
in search of strange remedies. 

Our notion is, briefly, that interest and sym- 
pathy form the basis of all good advice about 
reading. Even so admirable a treatise as that 
of Mr. Frederic Harrison upon " The Choice 
of Books " will not do much for the mind untu- 
tored and astray. Far more may be done by 
some simple suggestion, in the line of an interest 
already existing, made by some person with a 
sympathetic insight into the workings of the 
inquirer's mind. This is the method by which 
library workers are to-day throughout the coun- 
try stimidating young readers, and unobtrusively 
leading them into the pleasant paths of literature. 
This is the method which teachers in the schools 
shoidd employ, and doubtless would employ, 
were it not for the paralyzing restrictions im- 
posed upon them by courses of study and lists 
of books for required reading. The framers of 
these deadly devices wiU have much to answer 



for when they are called to accoimt for their 
misdeeds before the bar of judgment. 

The pliilosophical basis of this method is of 
the simplest, and persuasion rather than force is 
its watchword. It assumes that everyone who 
has read at all has developed some special inter- 
ests, and that these interests may be deepened 
by judicious counsel. It should not be difficidt 
to divert by degrees the mind that has found 
pleasure in the tinsel and pinchbeck of " When 
Knighthood Was in Flower " to the sterling joys 
provided by Scott, or the mind that has foimd 
satisfaction in the cheap buffoonery of " David 
Harum" to the immortal art of Dickens. Taking 
the existent interest as the point of departure, and 
always working upward upon the line of least 
resistance, more may be aceomplished than is 
readily imagined, far more, certainly, than may 
be accomplished by viewing the subject of the ex- 
periment de haut en has, and expecting his tastes 
to conform immediately to standards that are to 
be achieved only after extensive reading and the 
exercise of much discriminating judgment. 

If something be asked for a little more com- 
prehensive than this process of replacing a poor 
novel by a better one, we offer for our final sug- 
gestion the following device. Take as the point 
of departure some book of the highest character 
that it is safe to choose, and one selected because 
it has the twofold merit of appealing to an 
already established interest of the reader and of 
tending to awaken broader interests of an allied 
nature. Then map out a plan of further read- 
ing for the express purpose of fortifying these 
dawning new interests, until by insensible de- 
gi'ees a new and widened horizon shall be found 
to have replaced the old contracted one. Many 
works of historical fiction, for example, are rich 
in these radiating interests, and might be made 
nuclei for a growth of culture that shoidd be at 
once painless and profitable. " Westward Ho I " 
" The Cloister and the Hearth," and " Henry 
Esmond" may be given as illustrations. Or, 
if it be safe to venture upon something more 
serious than a novel as the point of departure, 
how effective a use might be made of such a book 
as Trelawney's memorials of Byron and SheUey, 
or one of Mr. Morley's studies of the French 
philosophers, or a volume of Symonds's history 
of the Italian renaissance ! What vistas each of 
these books imfolds to an active mind, and what 
rich pastures does it open to cidtivation ! And 
how easy it would be, in pursuit of this plan, 
under skilful guidance, to acquire almost without 
knowing it a fruitfid acquaintance with one of the 
most significant periods in the life of mankind ! 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



111 



THE DELIGHTS OF INDISCRIMINATE 
READING. 



A choice instance of a mind edacious of all human 
knowledge is found in Dr. John Brown's uncle by 
marriage. Mi". Robert Johnston, an elder in the 
church of his brother-in-law and Dr, Brown's father, 
the Rev. John Brown, and a merchant and " por- 
tioner " in the little Lanarkshii-e village of Biggar 
— as we learn from the author of " Rab and his 
Friends." This Johnston, as is related at some 
length in the first volume of " Spare Hours." not 
only intermeddled fearlessly with all knowledge, but 
made himself master of more learning, definite and 
exhaustive, in various departments, than do many 
univei'sitj' scholars in their own chosen specialties. 
*• Mathematics, astronomy, and especially what may 
be called selenology or the doctrine of the moon, and 
the higher geometr\- and physics ; Hebrew, Sanscrit, 
Greek, and Latin, to the veriest rigors of prosody 
and metre: Spanish and Italian. German, French, 
and any odd language that came in his way: all 
these he knew more or less thoroughly," writes his 
admii-ing nephew, " and acquired them in the most 
leisurely, easy, cool sort of way, as if he grazed and 
browsed perpetually in the field of letters, rather 
than made f onnal meals, or gathered for any ulterior 
purpose his fruit*, his roots, and his nuts — he espe- 
cially liketl mental nuts — much less bought them 
from anyone."' Every personage in Homer, great or 
small, heroic or comic, he knew as well as he knew 
the \Tllage doctor or shoemaker : and he made it a 
matter of conscience to read the Homeric poems 
through once every foiu- years. Tacitus, Suetonius. 
Plutarch, Plautus, Lucian, and nobody knows how 
many other classical and past-classical authors, he 
was familiar with, together with such modems as 
Boccaccio. Cervantes (whose •• Don " he knew almost 
by heart ). Addison, Swift, Fielding. Groldsmith, 
Walter Scott, down even to Miss Austen, Miss 
Edgewoitli. and Miss Ferrier. 

But not with the characters of history and fiction 
alone was this >'illage shop-keeper on intimate terms. 
All the minutest personal gossip of the parish, one is 
partly grieved and pai'tly amused to relate, was rel- 
ished and assimilated by him. Poachers and ne'er- 
do-wells appealed to his sympathies, while on the 
other liand no one could more keenly enjoy a learned 
doctrinal discussion with the jiarish minister. " This 
singular man," continues the chronicler, ''came to the 
manse every Friday evening for many years, and he 
and my father discussetl everj-thing and everybody ; 
— - beginning with tough, strong head work — a bout 
at wrestling, be it Caesar's Bridge, the Epistles of 
Phalaris, . . . the Catholic question, or the great 
roots of Chiistian faith ; ending with the latest joke 
in the town or the West Raic, the last effusion of 
Affleck, taUor and poet, the last blimder of -£sop the 
apothecary, and the last repartee of the village fool, 
with the week's Edinburgh and Glasgow news by 
their respective carriers ; the whole little life, sad and 



humorous — who had been bom, and who was dying 
or dead, married or about to be, for the past eight 
days." This ** firm and close-grained mind," indepen- 
dent of all authority except reason and truth, quick 
to detect weakness, fallacy, or unfairness, and ever 
insistent upon accuracy and clear thinking, served as 
a sort of whetstone on which the minister sharpened 
his wits at these weekly sittings. Of the bodily 
aspect of this interesting man one is glad to be told 
something. Short and round, homely and florid, 
he was thought by his nephew to bear a probable 
resemblance to Socrates. Careless in his dress, he 
habitually carried his hands in his pockets, was a 
great smoker, and indulged in much more than the 
Napoleonic allowance of sleep. He had a large, full 
skull, a humorous twinkle in his cold blue eye, a soft 
low voice, great power of quiet but effective sarcasm, 
and large capacity of listening to and enjoying other 
men's talk, however small. It will readily be in- 
ferred that he was unplagued by the itch of author- 
ship. Like the cactus in the desert, always plump, 
always taking in the dew of heaven, he cared little 
to give it out Nevertheless, from first to last, many 
magazine articles and a few pamphlets, dealing with 
questions of the day, dropped from his pen : but such 
a man. as his nephew says, is never best in a book : 
he Is always greater than his work. 

There comes to mind another and much earlier 
devourer of all sorts of then-existent book-learning, 
but one possessed of far less pith and character, 
independent judgment and power of observation, 
than our canny Scotchman. MarsUio Ficino, the 
Florentine, contemporarj' with Cosimo de' Medici, 
and placed by him over the Platonic Academy 
which the nobleman had founded not long before, 
distinguished himself by his ardent pursuit of all 
knowledge, but especially of that qxiintessence of all 
knowledge which we call philosophy. Though a 
Canon of St Lorenzo and the avowed champion of 
Christian philosophy, he is said to have kept a lamp 
burning before Plato's bust and it is certain that he 
produced a Latin translation of Plato's works that 
is still held in high esteem. Extending his studies 
over the entire field of ancient literature, as Pro- 
fessor Villari tells us, Ficino eagerly devoured the 
works of every sage of antiquity. Aristotelians, 
Platonists, Alexandrians, all were read by him with 
untiring zeal. He sought out the remains of Con- 
fucius and Zoroaster — and be it noted that this was 
in the middle of the fifteenth century, when such a 
search was something far different from what it is 
now in the twentieth. Leaping from one age to 
another, from this philosophic system to that, he 
welcomed all learning as grist to his mill. Not only 
did he become a living dictionary of ancient phi- 
losophy, so that his works are practically an ency- 
clopaedia of the philosophic doctrines known up to 
his time, but he was also versed in natural science, 
so far as such knowledge was then obtainable, and 
had received from his father some training in med- 
icine. He is especially interesting, however, as the 
incarnation of that spirit of exultation that was 



112 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 16, 



aroused throughout Europe by the discovery of the 
literary treasures of antiquity. There is enough 
that is likable in him, as portrayed in Professor 
VUlari's work on Savonarola, to make us forgive 
the incm-able pedantry of the man. For pedant 
he certainly was, so stuffed with ill-digested learning 
that he had lost the power of independent thought 
and was never content until he coidd make his 
ideas, if he had any, square with Plato, or with 
Aristotle, or even with some ancient skeptic or 
materialist. And so we leave him, sadly deficient in 
native faculty, but possessed of an admirable thirst 
for knowledge. 

StiU another choice spirit, to whom nothing human 
was devoid of interest, is that genial hypochondriac 
who, to cure himself of melancholy, wrote one of 
the most fascinating, as it is one of the most fan- 
tastic, works of literature. Of the author of ''The 
Anatomy of Melancholy" far too little is known. 
But there is in the '* Athenae Oxonienses " a quaint 
characterization of the man that is worth much. 
" He was," says Wood, as quoted in the " Dictionary 
of National Biography," "an exact mathematician, 
a curious calculator of nativities, a general read 
scholar, a thorough-paced philologist, and one that 
understood the surveying of lands well. As he was 
by many accounted a severe student, a devourer of 
authors, a melancholy and humorous person, so by 
others who knew him well a person of great hon- 
esty, plain dealing and charity. I have heard some 
of the antients of Christ Church often say that his 
company was very merry, facete and juvenile, and 
no man of his time did surpass him for his ready 
and dexterous interlarding his common discourse 
among them with verses from the poets or sentences 
from classical authors." Bishop Kennet, quoted also 
in the " Dictionary," says of Burton that " in an 
interval of vapours" he was wont to be extremely 
cheerful, after which he would fall into such a state 
of despondency that he could only get relief by going 
to the bridge-foot at Oxford and hearing the barge- 
men swear at one another, " at whic^h he woidd set 
his hands to his sides and laugh most profusely"; 
which will perhaps recall to some the passage in 
Burton's preface relating a similar practice attrib- 
uted to Democritus. Burton died at or very near 
the time he had foretold some years before in cal- 
culating his nativity. Wood records a report, cur- 
rent among the students, that he had " sent up his 
soul to heaven thro' a noose about his neck," in order 
not to falsify his calculation. Beneath his bust in 
Christ Church Cathedral, where he was buried, is 
this curious epitaph, composed by himself : " Paucis 
notus, paucioribus ignotus, hie jacet Democritus 
Junior, cui vitam dedit et mortem Melancholia." 

To the eager devourer of all knowledge, the charm 
of this incomprehensible universe of ours is in one 
important respect much like the charm of a living 
person : it lies largely in what is below the surface 
and only approximately and doubtfully attainable 
by shrewd conjecture. In a human being it is 
found in those reserves of personality that constitute 



so large a fraction of true manhood and woman- 
hood. Should the cosmic scheme ever be so im- 
modest as to lay bare its secret to our gaze, we 
should be literally shocked to death. Thus the fasci- 
nation that lures to the pursuit of ultimate truth is the 
fascination of the unattainable. With the enlarge- 
ment of one's sphere of knowledge, the surface pre- 
sented to the encompassing Unknowable, to use Hei*- 
bei-t Spencer's tigm'e, is correspondingly increased ; 
whereby one's sense of awe and mystery and won- 
der is by so much deepened and intensified. And 
although the further one progresses in knowledge, 
the more profound l)ecomes one's conviction of 
ignorance, nevertheless there is a wholesome satis- 
faction in learning how little we really know. To 
attain at last to something like a clear and compre- 
hensive sm'vey of the variety and profundity of our 
ignorance, is well worth the price of a lifetime spent 
in study. To master the domain of human knowl- 
edge (to say nothing now of ultimate truth) is no 
longer possible. All the gi-eater, therefore, our envy 
in contemplating those bygone dabblers in all then- 
existent branches of learning. They came nearer 
to the attainment of universal knowledge, so called, 
than will ever again be possible. Yet there is com- 
fort in the thought that the literatxu-e of power, the 
sum total of things warmly and humanly interesting 
and significant, does not gi*ow nearly so rapidly as 
the field of science and its unliterary literature. 
That the true hunger for knowledge is notably in- 
satiable, is of course easy to explain. Pjach added 
shred of information draws into view a tangled wel) 
of countless desirable acquisitions, so that the appetite 
grows with feeding. The domain of possible con- 
quest increases to the learner's vision when once he 
is seized and swept away by the passion for research, 
in a geometrical progi'ession whose constant factor 
is large. 

It may be, finally, as we are often enough assured 
by good men, that this impossibility of satisfying 
the intellectual appetite is providential, and that the 
chief function of the insatiate craving for all knowl- 
edge is to point us at last to the exercise of other 
and higher faculties which shall in the end l)ring 
the peace that passeth understanding. 

Percy F. Bicknell. 



COMMUNICA TION. 



A FINAL WORD ABOUT MR. SWINBURNE AS 

"A LOVE POET." 

(To the Editor of The Dial.) 

When I ventured to ask some questions in your col- 
umns about Mr. Swinburne's poetry, I had no intention 
of enternig into any discussion which they might possi- 
bly provoke. But the very courteous comnuuiicatiou of 
Mr. Francis Howard Williams, published in The Dial 
of February 1, seems to demand a response. 

As Mr. Williams himself intimates, his coinmunica- 
tiou does not deal with the main question, but with a 
side issue — or rather with several side issues. It is 
chiefly a protest against my mcidental references to Mr. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



113 



Swinburne's love-poems. Not only does Mr. Williams 
consider Mr. Swinburne "essentially and avowedly a 
love-poet," but he claims " that he excels all others in 
the vi^-id and compact expression of erotic emotion." 
Passing over this statement without comment, I will try 
to answer Mr. Williams's questions, and in so doing I 
trust that I may make my position more clear. 

Mr. Williams objects to my referring to certain love- 
poems of Mr. Swinburne's as " so-called love-poems." 
This raises too long a question for a short letter. The 
word "love" as we commonly use it is xmdoubtedly 
broad and elastic enough to include those poems in the 
first series of " Poems and Ballads " which I had in 
mind. Tliere are many kinds of love and many classes 
of lovers. Speaking broadly, these poems are properly 
" called " love-poems, but (as I intended to suggest) 
they deal with love only, or chiefly, as a thing of the 
senses. In a familiar sonnet (CX^^.), to which I have 
already referred, Shakespeare speaks of love as " the 
marriage of true minds." This is incomplete, but noble. 
In another sonnet (CXXIX.) he lays bare another and 
a very different kind of emotion ; he does not call this 
love, but gives it another and a baser name. In one 
comprehensive line he describes this emotion as " the 
expense of spirit in a waste of shame." Poems which 
sympathetically portray such an " expense of spirit " 
are " called " love-poems, but, in my judgment, their 
place is not with the true love-poems of the literature, 
which deal with a gift which is half di\Tne in its nobler 
and more truly beautifid aspects. Is there not a basis 
of truth in the story of Tannhauser, as Wagner pre- 
sents it ? The poet of Venusberg is deprived of his 
place among the Troubadours, the true poets of love. 
The poet of " Laus Veneris " shows us human passion 
in its earthly and least exalted form, — passion, with its 
inevitable successors, satiety, world-weariness, and de- 
spair. Whether such poems are true love-poems, or 
whether they profane the name of love, is a matter of 
opinion and definition. 

A few minor points remain to be noticed. I did not 
say or imply that Emerson did, or could, write love- 
poetry. To that charge I plead not guilty. Mr. Williams 
asks : " ^Vhen did Wordsworth ever write a love- 
poem ? " I referred, of course, to the little group of 
poems, which are sometimes spoken of as the " Lucy " 
poems (" She dwelt beside untrodden ways," " Three 
years she grew," etc.), and to the poem beginning " She 
was a phantom of delight." These masterpieces need 
neither praise nor justification, but it may be interesting 
to note that Professor F. B. Gummere, in his little book 
on " Poetics " places them among the most representa- 
tive love-lyrics of the literature. 

I am sorry to be obliged to differ so often from Mr. 
WUliams, but I cannot agree with him about Browning. 
I feel that the poet of that great apostrophe " O Lyric 
Love," the poet who wrote " By the Fireside," " One 
Word More," and " Love among the Ruins " (to give 
only a few examples), ranks with the true love-poets of 
the literature. He is the poet of love in its noblest 
aspect as " the greatest good i' the world." Even if 
" The Statue and the Bust " were an exception to this, 
the other poems woidd remain, but I do not regard it 
as an exception. The poem has puzzled many readers, 
and it is |)erhaps somewhat ambigiious, but I am con- 
strained to say that in this instance I think Mr. Williams 
has failed to understand Browning's meaning. 

Henry S. Paxcoast. 
Hartford, Conn.. Feb. 8, 1906. 



Cb ieto gooks. 



Pre-Raphaelitism from a Xew Axgle.* 



It is impossible to escape a certain feeling of 
disappointment io connection with Mr. Holman- 
Himt's long-awaited account of the Pre-Raphael- 
ite movement. Other chroniclers have pictured 
this as a dramatic, impassioned revolt. They 
have dwelt upon its splendid enthusiasms and 
generous hero-worship, its light-hearted gaiety 
and its spontaneous humor. Their lively me- 
moii*s have been full of clever anecdotes and 
entei-taining personalities. The Pre-Raphaelite 
painters have been invariably treatetl not merely 
as artists and poets but as men, — eccentric at 
times and irresponsible, ^^^th more energy in 
imdertaking a new project than patience and 
training for finishing it, but full, nevertheless, 
of the joy of living and of working, and of that 
many-sided responsiveness to the best things that 
is the characteristic spirit of the amateur, in 
the true sense of that misused term. And so 
interest in the Pre-Raphaelite movement has 
come to depend less upon approval of its poetic 
or pictorial expression than upon appreciation 
of the remarkable personality of the artists. 
But Mr. Holman-Himt's idea is that we have 
j alreatly had far more of this sort of thing than 
is good for us ; that in the effort to render the 
movement fascinating and dramatic its real pur- 
pose has l)een lost sight of, and that in the 
maze of anecdote and personality dates have 
been distorted, followers have been confused 
with leaders, and truth has been outraged. His 
purpose, then, is to write a historj' that shall 
be accurate, exact, and uupersonal, that shall 
show in plain prose how the Pre-Raphaelite 
painters worked among other English painters 
of their day, that shall explain what was their 
theoiy of art, what each Brother contributed to 
the movement, and how the critics and the pub- 
lic received his work. In particular the author 
wishes to correct certain dominant errors in the 
popular view of the movement. The book, 
therefore, has quite a different scope and inter- 
est from those with which its title challenges 
comparison. Both Mr. Holman-Hunt's author- 
ship and his peculiar imderstanding of Pre- 
Raphaelitism lead to a heavy emphasis upon his 
own work. But he does not ^^ish the book to 
be considered as autobiography merely. He 
clearly aims at getting a hearing with the peo- 

• Pke-Baphaeutism axd the Prb-Raphaelitb Bbothkk- 
HOOD. By William Holman-Hunt. In two volomes. Illustrated. 
New York: The Blacmillan Co. 



114 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 16,. 



pie who have preferred Rossetti's work to his 
own and who have regarded Madox Brown as 
the chief source of Rossetti's initial inspiration, 
— who have accordingly been interested in 
the Pre-Raphaelite movement, without, as Mr. 
Holman-Hunt thinks, in the least understand- 
ing it. 

Of course the whole controversy hinges, like 
most controversies, upon the definition of the 
terms. Mr. Holman-Hunt means one thing by 
Pre-Raphaelitism ; and William Rossetti, Mrs. 
Bume- Jones, and the general reader mean quite 
another. According to Mr. Holman-Hunt, he 
originated, and he and his life-long friend 
Millais talked over and agreed to battle to- 
gether for, the Pre-Raphaelite theory. This 
theory seems to have been simply the accurate 
and careful rendering of natural objects. Hol- 
man-Hunt carried it to its furthest point when 
he went to Syria, subjecting himself to imtold 
discomfort and a good deal of danger in order 
to paint sacred subjects in their proper environ- 
ment. But he worked out aU his backgrounds 
" with the eye on the object." He took long 
walks over the moors with a lantern to study 
the right effects for " The Light of the World," 
and even painted a large part of the picture by 
lamp-light, out-of-doors, in the damp chill of 
autunm. The original, unalloyed Pre-Raphael- 
ite idea, as Mr. Holman-Hunt uses the term, 
does not seem to have gone deeper than the 
method of getting one's data. It left the imagi- 
nation untouched, and therefore could not affect 
the imderlying conception of the pamting. 
His picture of " The Scape-Goat," with its ob- 
vious beauties and obvious limitations, perhaps 
embodies the theory more fully, because more 
baldly, than any other one painting ; and an 
attempt to realize how Rossetti might have 
treated the same theme will set the ideals of the 
two painters in illuminating contrast. 

But when, in 1847, Rossetti left Madox 
Brown in despair at the dulness of forever paint- 
ing pickle-jars and came to Holman-Hvmt's studio 
to work under his direction, the Pre-Raphaelite 
idea, which liad not yet received its name, was 
largely in the air. Rossetti received it with his 
accustomed enthusiasm, — even Mr. Holman- 
Hunt admits that he had a genius for feeling 
and propagating enthusiasm, — and threw liim- 
self with eager abandon into the organization of 
a formal crusade against the conventional stand- 
ards and tyrannous Philistinism of the Royal 
Academy. 

It seems little short of amazing, considering 
the temperamental obstacles, that Hobnan-Himt 



and Rossetti should ever have been drawn to- 
wards one another, or even imagined that they 
could pull together. From Holman-Hiuit's point 
of view the Brotherhood was a disastrous failure. 
Rossetti was from the first utterly oblivious of 
his obligations to it. He confused minute ren- 
dermg of nature with mediae valism, which Millais 
and Holman-Hunt abhorred. As soon as he had 
raised a storm of opprobrium with his first 
" P. R. B." picture, which, contrary to agi*ee- 
ment, he exhibited in advance of Millais's and 
Holman-Hunt's, he coolly withdrew from the 
fray and never again exhibited at the Academy. 
But he did not stop with sins of omission. The 
rancorous criticisms of the Academy, put forth 
often anonymously by himself and his friends,^ 
did them no harm, but greatly injured Holman- 
Hunt and Millais, whose idea had apparently 
been to conduct a peaceful, conciliatory cam- 
paign. Worst of all, Rossetti's showy painting^ 
and great power of influencing younger men 
misled Ruskin into naming him the leader of the 
movement, a designation that Rossetti accepted 
complacently. As a matter of fact, Rossetti's 
" Arch-Pre-Raphaelitism " as his friends laugh- 
ingly named it, was merely arch-heresy in Hol- 
man-Hunt's eyes, and since Millais eventually 
abandoned the gospel that he had professed sO' 
ardently, Holman-Hunt alone continued to paint 
after the true Pre-Raphaelite manner. 

While we are glad to do justice to Mr. Hol- 
man-Hunt, and interested in comparing his point 
of view with those of other historians, we can- 
not willingly consent to his high-handed substi- 
tution of one stage of the movement for the 
whole story. A Pre-Raphaelite school tliat leaves 
out Rossetti and accords merely a casual men- 
tion to William Morris and Bume-Jones i» 
indeed shorn of its glory. What Mr. Holman- 
Hunt's history fails to allow for is the personal 
equation and its marvellous power of developing 
a situation. William Rossetti was one of the 
seven original Brothers. A comparison of his 
statement of the aims of the organization with 
Holman-Hunt's will show that even at first there 
were different interpretations. It is impossible 
to imagine Dante Gabriel Rossetti and Holman- 
Hxmt understanding the simplest statement in 
precisely the same way, and as the new ideas 
were sown abroad largely through Rossetti's 
magic influence, they were necessarily modified 
in the process, — glorified or distorted accor- 
ding to the point of view. It never seems to 
occur to Mr. Holman-Hmit that his conception 
of Pre-Raphaelitism makes it immeasurably less 
significant than it has come to be considered. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



115 



That the strongest proof of the virility and power 
of the movement was the way it grew to include 
new thoughts and adapted itself to new person- 
alities is to him inconceivable. He regards an 
idea as a static thing ; to give it life is to destroy 
its unity, and you must accordingly rename it 
at every stage. 

Holnian-Himt's hostility to fiossetti is inev- 
itable, but there seems to be no better reason 
than jealousy for the former's determined belit- 
tlement of Ford ^Vladox Brown. It is always 
difficidt to settle claims of priority; and it is 
of small consequence, since both worked inde- 
pendently, whether Holman-Hunt or Brown 
first arrived at Pre-Raphaelite conclusions. 
But Holman-Hunt is unwilling to give Madpx 
Brown any credit for originality. He insists 
upon reducing him to the himible rank of fol- 
lower, declaring that when the Brotherhood was 
organized he was not Pre-Raphaelite, that he 
was never officially asked to join the Brother- 
hood, and that his instruction contributed very 
little, if anj'thing, towards Rossetti's develop- 
ment. Even if these contentions are fully justi- 
fied, we shoidd like Holman-Himt better if he 
had shown more generosity towards a rival. 

But it is high time to turn from the contro- 
versial to the narrative interest of the book. 
Holman-Hunt tells his story well, in a style 
more earnest than lively, and with a memory 
for detail that is trvdy marvellous. The Sj'rian 
journeys, fidl of strange adventures and imique 
experiences, furnish some delightfid chapters. 
One of the greatest of the many difficidties 
incident upon the ignorance and superstition 
of the natives was the finding of trustworthy 
models. He tells an amusing story of a shop- 
keeper whose promise he secured to sit for a 
figure in the great Temple picture. The Jew 
failed to appear, and Holman-Hunt's interpreter 
explainetl his scruple thus : 

" Well, YOU know the merchant's name is Daoud 
Levi. On the Day of Judgment the Archangel Michael 
will be standing at the gate of heaven, and the names 
of all faithful children of Abraham will be called out. 
. . . When Daoud's name is called, if there were a 
picture of him, it might be that the likeness would 
arrive first, and this might be passed in, and the name 
struck off the roll ; and when he arrived to demand ad- 
mittance he might be told that Daoud Levi has already 
entered in, and that he must be a pretender." 

Holman-Himt managed to keep a serious face 
while he inquired whether baptizing the por- 
trait with a Christian name would help matters 
any. The Jew thought it would : so, after the 
first few strokes. Hunt sprinkled the likeness 
with water and declared its name to be Jack 



Robinson. After some alterations had been 
made the Jew feared that the baptized likeness 
had been destroyed, and insisted upon a re- 
christening. Needless to say, before the artist 
was through with him he proved to be as great 
a rascal as he was sophistical a reasoner. 

There are vivid reminiscences of Thackeray, 
Tennyson, the Brownings, and the Carlyles. 
Tennyson particidarly attracted Holman-Himt, 
and the poet seemed to have treated him with 
unwonted consideration. He gives a lively ac- 
coimt of a walking trip through Cornwall, on 
which Tennyson, Palgrave, and Val Prinsep 
were his associates. With his fixed dread of 
being lionized, the poet begged his companions, 
who were all much younger than he, not on any 
accoimt to call him by his surname. Palgrave 
paid no heed to this injunction diiring the day, 
but as he followed the poet about the cliffs he 
was continually shouting "• Tennyson " at the top 
of his Ivmgs. At the inn, however, he ostenta- 
tiously referred to bim as " the old gentleman." 
Tennyson objected to this designation, and 
Palgrave retorted that it was absurd to assume 
that his name would be noticed. Each time the 
discussion was renewed Tennyson showed more 
temper, imtil finally there was an open rupture 
and Tennyson retired to his room to pack. 

" When the poet had gone Palgrave said to us, 
« You 've no idea of the perpetual worry he causes me.' 
Val ejaculated, ' Did you say that he caused you ? ' 
« Yes,' he returned. ' The last words that Mrs. Tennyson 
said to me on leaving were that I must promise her 
faithfully that I would never on any accoimt let Ten- 
nyson out of my sight for a minute, because with his 
short-sight, in the neighborhood of the cliffs or on the 
beach of the sea, he might be in the g^atest danger if 
left alone. I 'm ever thinking of my promise, and he 
continually trying to elude me; if I turn my head one 
minute, on looking back I find him gone, and when I call 
out for him he studiously avoids answering.' ' But you 
call him by his name ? ' we pleaded for the poet. ' Of 
course I do, for I find that his fear of being discovered 
gives me the best chance of making him avow himself.'" 

A few moments later Tennyson appeared to 
apologize for the " bickerings " and to explain 
how Palgrave's voice, " like a bee in a bottle," 
had interfered with his opportunities for peace- 
ful revery. And next day he persisted in start- 
ing home, accompanied by the faithful Palgrave, 
and arguing violently, as they drove off, against 
the need of Mrs. Tennyson's caution. All of 
which goes to show that Rossetti was not the 
only genius who tried his friends' forbearance to 
the breaking point. 

There are a great many good stories and 
illuminating bits of criticism in the book which 
woidd well bear quoting, but these examples 



116 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 16, 



must suffice. The great charm of the narrative 
lies in the connected and undetachable story of 
Hohnan-Hunt's career, with its fine concentra- 
tion, its brave, conscientious pursuit of an ideal, 
and its gi-eat achievement in spite of heavy odds. 
If we yield one kind of admiration to Rossetti 
and the circle of yovmg enthusiasts that he 
gathered about him, we cannot but grant another 
sort to Mr. Holman-Hunt. Where the others 
rushed gaily over obstacles, he labored with 
dogged perseverence to overcome them. Though 
his range of sympathy was smaller, he was scru- 
pidous in the discharge of every obligation. If 
his inspiration was less exalted and less bril- 
liant than theirs, he pursued it with an industry 
that they could not achieve and an indomitable 
courage that they could not better. Best of all 
he has kept his temper in the face of much 
provocation to lose it ; his attitude toward the 
Academy, toward the critics, and toward Rossetti 
is admirably dignified. Few men, therefore, 
have had more promising material for an auto- 
biography, and there are no dull pages in the 
two thick volumes, though at times the narrative 
moves rather slowly, and the long conversations 
of by-gone years are a little stilted and colorless 
in repetition. 

The illustrations in photogTavure and half- 
tone are nmnerous enough to reproduce all 
Holman-Himt's important works and a great 
mass of sketches and studies. There are also 
several portraits of the artist, and a large num- 
ber of pictures by his contemporaries, which 
are referred to in the text by way of showing 
the widespread influence of the true Pre- 
Raphaelite motive, as Holman-Hunt interpreted 

^*- Edith Kellogg Dunton. 



A New History of Educatiox.* 



It can hardly be said that we have too many 
histories of education, or that we yet have suit- 
able text-books on the subject. The subject 
itself is comparatively new, and awaits satisfac- 
tory treatment both for general reading and for 
the classroom. Professor Monroe's new book 
gives great promise, at first glance, of being a 
nearer approach to the desired text-book than 
any previous one : it is, as the author notes in 
the preface, several times as large as most of 
those now in use, and all will agree that these 
latter are quite too scanty ; it is published by a 
firm whose imprint is a guarantee of at least 



*A Text-Book in the History of Education. 
Monroe. New York : The Macmillan Co. 



By Paul 



some marked excellence ; and its external make- 
up is all that could be asked. A general survey 
reveals at once two great virtues : a broad and 
yet sane and definite conception of the subject, 
and a rich body of material, in general well 
chosen. The writer has hit a happy mean 
between the narrow ideal of a " history of peda- 
gogy " on the one hand, and such a general and 
subjective view as that of Thomas Davidson in 
his little " History of Education " on the other. 
The discussion everywhere recognizes the fact 
that education is an integral part of the whole 
development of humanity in history, and yet 
does not forget that it is dealing with education 
and not with the whole progress of thought 
and life. 

There are, however, some omissions and some 
faults in proportion. We are surprised to 
find an extensive treatment of such a remote 
topic as Chinese education, and not a word upon 
the more relevant subject of Hebrew education ; 
with the educational theories and practice of the 
Chinese our history lias had no contact or inter- 
action, while with the Hebrew there are many 
points of relation. Again, it would seem that 
to give the Middle Ages 126 pages and the 
Renaissance and Reformation only 90 is con- 
ceding too much to mere length of time instead 
of taking into account real historical significance. 
Vittorino da Feltre, John Sturm, and Melanch- 
thon are disposed of in an average of two pages 
each, — surely a scant recognition of their place 
in the work of actual education. 

The chapter-headings contain some question- 
able terms. Oriental education is set down as 
" recapitidation "; is it not rather simply repe- 
tition or reproduction of type ? Indeed, it is 
hard to see why the sub-title of primitive edu- 
cation, " non-progressive adjustment," does not 
fit Oriental education quite as well. Greek edu- 
cation is called '' education as progressive adjust- 
ment "; but did not Greece distinctly fail to 
adjust her education to new conditions and so 
succumb to national decay ? Plato's pedagog- 
ical vision had no realization in actual Greek 
education, and we can by no means assert that 
its realization woidd have proved to be a pro- 
gressive adjustment. Locke serves as repre- 
sentative of the disciplinary conception of edu- 
cation, but in the process seems to us to suffer 
a certain narrowing and distortion, only par- 
tially corrected by admissions that he also rep- 
resents realism and naturalism. 

Closer examination reveals much that is 
excellent. We may mention particularly the 
treatment of Realism, which is broad and illu- 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



117 



minafing in the highest degree. In the pages 
on Rousseau and in the entire treatment of 
Herbart the author succeeds in giving in con- 
densed form and clear outline the essential con- 
tributions made by the two men to educational 
doctrine. Indeed, the whole book gives proof 
of the broadest and richest acquaintance with 
the field ; the great mass of material is in general 
handled in such a way as to show that ample 
knowledge of the subject which is the requisite 
of the scholar and the teacher. 

Thus the selection of material and the general 
treatment deserve high commendation. They 
are such as go to the make-up of the ideal text- 
book of the subject : and this fact makes it the 
more to be regretted that the book suffers from 
some serious favdts, which greatly lessen its 
value both for the general reader and for the 
student. All these faidts seem to be the result 
of one thing, — haste. It is as though the au- 
thor had with aU due pains and care gathered 
his material and framed his plan, and then, 
urged by some sudden impulse, thrown the 
book together and rushed it through the press. 
The power and equipment which parts of the 
work show, to say nothing of other work of the 
same author, forbid us to think that the book 
might not have been of far higher excellence in 
its final form. As it is. there are flaws and 
errors on almost every page which sadly mar 
the quality of the book. 

The least important of these defects are petty 
errors, not exactly typographical, for they covdd 
by no means be charged to the printer, but 
rather such points as might easily be due to 
incompetent proof-reading ; as for example mis- 
spelled words, especially proper names, — '• Vit- 
terino da Feltra " (pp. 398, 399), " Scotus 
Erigina " (p. 278), •• Furstenschiden " (p. 389) ; 
''ephoebi'* for "epheboi"' (p. 75); and such 
slips of the pen as the statement that Alexander 
of Hales was the author of the " Summa 
Theologiae " (p. 305), while on a preceding 
page it is correctly ascribed to Thomas Aquinas. 
With such minor errors may be classed the fre- 
quent omission of important references. Long 
citations on pages 366 and 525 are not even ac- 
companied by the name of the work from which 
they are taken ; Aristotle's •• Poetics "' is simply 
referred to as " another work " (p. 155). Defi- 
nite citation of chapter or page is the exception. 
It should not be forgotten that a text-book of this 
sort shoiJd be framed for the hand of the teacher 
as well as that of the student, and the critical 
and literary apparatus pro\'ided accordingly. 

We are not a little surprised to find the 



words " Ye shall know the truth, and the truth 
shall make you free " ascribed to an " Apostle " 
(p. 140 ) ; does our national ignorance of the 
Bible affect even university professors ? On page 
75 the terms " Iren " and " MeUiren " are con- 
fused, although both have been defined on a 
preceding page in a quotation from Plutarch. 

But these points are insignificant compared 
with other and more serious errors. We are 
told that Plato, in the " Republic," '• rejects all 
the Homeric poems" (p. 136), and ''would 
eliminate the use of the poets altogether " (p. 95). 
The re\'iewer can find no such declarations 
in the •• Republic," but finds on the contrary 
that Plato says distinctly, after rejecting the 
" pantomimic poet," " we ourselves will make 
use of the more severe and unattractive poet " 
(Rep. 398 A. B.). Is it not seriously incorrect 
to charge the Greeks with an " Oriental attitude 
toward womankind " (p. 95 ) ? The author as- 
sumes •• the absence of all thought of the gods 
or of the future life as having to do with either 
motive for or outcome of conduct in this life." 
Surely a moment's thought would have brought 
to mind Minos and Rhadamanthus, and the 
tenth lxx)k of the " Republic," and numberless 
distinct and emphatic expressions in Greek myth 
and epic and drama and philosophy, which 
would show the assiuuption to be utterly false ; 
indeed it is hard to see how such a phrase could 
have been coined even in the greatest haste and 
heedlessness. A similar misconception as to the 
religious life of the Greeks is found on page 750, 
where their education is said to have excluded 
all recognition of supernatural or religious ele- 
ment. The very reading books of the Greek 
boy. Homer and Hesoid, were full of just those 
elements : and Plato's chief objection to parts 
of these poems is that their theology is untrue 
and that they are in consequence dangerous in 
the extreme. Moreover the whole life of the 
Greek, boy and man, was hedged about by the 
religious and supernatural element ; in school 
and out, the child was constantly under its in- 
fluence. Was it not largely the break-down in 
the religious element which brought about the 
educational crisis in the days of Aristophanes 
and Socrates, and the subsequent decay of 
Greek life ? 

We are told that Francis Bacon " wrote 
nothing directly on education " (p. 468) ; as a 
matter of fact there are several considerable 
passages upon education in the " Advancement 
of Learning." 

On page 732 we find the statement, concern- 
ing France, that " religious instruction was given 



118 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 16, 



in all the schools." The past tense makes the 
sentence quite indefinite, but it is nevertheless 
misleaJding, in view of the fact that religious 
instruction was abolished in the government 
schools about 1882, and a moral and civic in- 
struction put in its place. The account of the 
situation in England, though apparently brought 
down to 1903, ignores the Act of 1902, prob- 
ably by far the most important educational 
measure in the history of English schools up to 
the present time. Since that Act went into force 
it is no longer true that " these two systems of 
State or board schools and Church or voluntary 
schools remain side by side " (p. 734). 

On the question of religious education the 
book is pecidiarly unfortimate. We are told 
on page 59 that " our schools to-day must elimi- 
nate the religious element "; is this not simply 
repeating a conunon misapprehension, that be- 
cause the public school must be unsectarian it 
must also be non religious ? At least the state- 
ment involves the prejudgment of a great ques- 
tion, and can only be defended by an exceed- 
ingly narrow definition of the phrase " religious 
element." It is quite in accordance with this 
that we find Rousseau's famous " Confession of 
Faith of a Savoyard Vicar " dismissed with the 
words " we can devote no attention to it here, 
since it is aside from our main interest " 
(p. 565). Nevertheless we are told that the 
question of religious education is a problem of 
very great impoi-tance (p. 750); and we cannot 
but wonder why it should be so completely 
excluded from the book. On the same page we 
read that " Little or no attempt at solution is 
being made and little interest aroused. ' ' Is there 
then no Catholic Church in America, bending 
every energy to this very task ? And if the 
Catholic activities are out of the range of the 
author's attention, he might at least have men- 
tioned the Religious Education Association, 
org-anized in 1902, and numbering in 1904 
about 2000 members, very many of whom are 
educational leaders. 

It is surprising to find Plato's doctrine of 
the education of women held up as the type 
toward which the twentieth century is striving 
(pp. 140, 141). "The differences lie in the 
difference of character, not in the difference of 
sex — a man and a woman — hence should have 
the same education." Is it not rather true that 
modern doctrine admits fuUy the differences of 
sex, and the consequent differences of educa- 
tion ? Even co-education is very far from mean- 
ing identical training, to say nothing of identical 
function in life, — a part of Plato's chimerical 



scheme for the training of women which Pro- 
fessor Monroe woidd seem by implication also 
to approve. 

The style of the book must be dealt with 
briefly. Evidences that the author is no incom- 
petent writer are abundant ; many chapters, 
especially those already mentioned with com- 
mendation in the earlier part of this review, are 
clear and quite sufficiently polished ; but large 
portions of the work are marred in style appar- 
ently by the same haste that has played such 
havoc with the accuracy. Vagueness, obscurity, 
and ambiguity are frequent. There is often 
confusion in the summary of doctrine, as for 
example the treatment of Rousseau on pages 
553-560. The title of this section is " Three- 
fold Meaning of Nature in the Emile"; the 
three meanings are all there, but in such form 
that the student woidd have great difficiilty in 
apprehending them ; in fact only one who knew 
them in advance could well feel sure that he had 
detected them. The account of Comenius's 
school system (pp. 492 f), which might be made 
so perfectly clear, is seriously clouded by lack 
of clear progress and carefid use of terms. 

There are many minor defects of form, of 
which a few specimens may be given. " Locke 
is the founder of the naturalistic movement in 
education, for in many respects, as he freely 
acknowledges, Rousseau is indebted to him " 
(p. 522). Who freely acknowledges ? Gram- 
mar and fact seem here to be at odds. There 
is a frequent unfortunate use of the phrase 
" as with," — thus, " Locke, as with Rousseau, 
ostensibly supplanted authority by reason " 
(p. 523). Not infrequently sentences are found 
which are not rhetorically coherent, as for exam- 
ple : " As the most important of all English 
writers on the subject of education, or at least 
as ranking with Ascham and Spencer, the main 
thoughts of Locke's treatise deserve presenta- 
tion " (pp. 513, 514). There are many of these 
blemishes, some obscure, some ambiguous, some 
merely awkward ; their frequency confirms the 
belief that great haste is the occasion of these 
faidts also. 

It is cause for genuine regret that a piece of 
work so well begun and with such great possi- 
bilities should be thus disfigured and damaged 
by a multitude of errors and blemishes, some 
indeed of importance, but most of them petty in 
themselves, and all avoidable by more care in 
writing, revising, and proof-reading. But with 
all its f axdts the book is probably the best thing 
available for college classes in the liistory of edu- 
cation. Vigilance on the part of the instructor 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



119 



can do much to correct the errors. We can only 
hope for an early second edition, rigorously 
^e^^sed, and in parts rewritten. 

Edward O. Sisson. 



Two AMERICAX MEX of liEXTERS.* 



Lowell and Lanier : the names chime pleas- 
antly, and with some significance, thus linked. 
At least two admirable studies recently pub- 
lished — among the most notable offerings of a 
year imusually rich in biographical literature — 
impress the reader with a definite feeling that 
this elder bard of New England, with his clear 
ideality of vision, and this later southern min- 
strel, with his fine perception of the spiritual 
sense of life, are closely akin in the lyric brother- 
hood. We will not push the parallel. The 
differences and discrepancies are palpable in the 
achievement of the younger poet whose fanej' 
had liardly begun its second flight ; Lanier's 
singing stopped in the poet's fortieth year, just 
ten years before the life of Lowell cl(»ed at the 
full age of seventy. 

Mr. Greenslet's study of Lowell is admirably 
matle. The material at hand, including the 
recently-augmented edition of the poet's letters, 
must have been almost embarrassing in its ful- 
ness to one whose purpose was to present \*dthin 
the space of a single volume a comprehensive 
view of the life of Lowell and a consistent inter- 
pretation of his work. However that may be, 
the result is a compact record of this many- 
sided life and a really judicial discussion of the 
poet's place in literatiure — the first essentially 
critical biography of Lowell yet attempted. 

Our gleaning from the volume must be 
meagre. !Mr. Greenslet's survey does not add 
materially to the vital facts of Lowell's life as 
ah-eady familiar. There was, to begin with, the 
auspicious environment of Elmwootl — the 
stately colonial mansion set in a '' bowery lone- 
liness " which drew the bluebirds and the orioles 
and the robins, — where the love of outtloor life 
was bred : and indoors there were books, — his 
clergyman-father's well-selected library, \^'ithin 
and among which he browsed knowingly : as a 
child he was read to sleep from •' The Faerie 
Queene," and rehearsed its adventurous episodes 
to his playmates. Then came the four years of 
the Harvai-d student, coloretl by a few whimsi- 
cal breaches of academic decorum, of which 

•James Busskix Lowell. His Life and Work. By Ferris 
Greenslet. Illustrated. Boston : Hoxighton, Mifflin & Co. 

Sidney Lakiek. By Edwin Mims. Illustrated. Boston: 
Houghton, Mifflin & Co. 



more is said, perhaps, than of the fact that in 
his own independent v^'ay the youth was reading 
omnivorously in all the rich pastures (if one may 
in this connection so mix the metaphor) of the 
world's literature. For three years he nerve- 
lessly pursued the law. At last he began to 
find himself, and, in 1843, elected literature. 

Lowells verse received its first potent impulse 
in his love for Maria White ; but definite inspi- 
ration came, with the development of his demo- 
cratic instincts and his ardent humanitarianism, 
in the early forties. Temperance reform, then 
woman suffrage, finally the anti-slaverj' move- 
ment, enlisted his fervent support. In that 
epoch of stormy debate he did not withhold his 
voice. The spirit which shaped some of his most 
characteristic work was already evoked. His 
ringing utterance was heard in poems like the 
" Stanzas on Freedom," and the sonnet to 
Wendell Phillips, both of which belong to 1843. 
"The Present Crisis," that superb climax of 
lyric eloquence, came in 1845. The year 1848 
is designated by the biographer as Lowell's 
annus mirabilis. It saw the publication of the 
second series of the " Poems '' and the comple- 
tion of " The Fable for Critics," the '• Biglow 
Papers,'' and the "Vision of Sir Launfal"; 
these besides niunerous articles and poems con- 
tributed to the magazines. 

For Lowell the satirist, Mr. Grreenslet has 
unqualified praise. 

" Little as he liked to be reminded of it in his later 
years, Lowell was the author of the ♦ Biglow Papers,' 
and it is as the author of the ' Biglow Papers ' that he 
is likely to be longest remembered. ... In variety, 
unction, quotability, ethical earnestness, humor, wit, 
fun, even in pure poetry and pathos, they stand quite 
by themselves in American literature. Criticism can- 
not touch them." 

Oftener than we are apt to remember, these 
years of Lowell's early manhood were in^'aded 
by sorrow. In 1847 the Lowells lost their little 
daughter Blanche, scarce a twelvemonth old ; 
three years later. Rose, their third child, died in 
infancy. The intimate personal expression of 
the poet's grief is given in the affecting lyrics : 
" She Came and Went," " The Changeling," 
and "The First Snowfall." In 1850 the 
poets mother, — from whom he had inherited 
the strong mystical tendency so clearly felt in 
his serious work as a whole, — died ; her in- 
tensely imaginative mind had become disordered 
in 1842, and for several years she had been an 
inmate of an asylum. The cloud had rested 
heavily over the household, but bitterness was 
still in store. In 1852, while enjoying their first 
trip abroad, the Lowells were again bereaved 



120 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 16, 



in the death of Walter, their little son, as they 
were passing the winter in Rome. Meanwhile 
Mrs. Lowell's health had been declining, and 
soon after the return home, in 1853, the poet 
buried the wife of his youth. His burden of 
grief is felt in '' Palinode," " After the Burial," 
and " The Dead House." " Something broke 
my life in two," he said later, " and I cannot 
piece it together again." 

Of the history conveyed in the later chapters 
of this work we have not space to speak. The 
biogi'apher has given a vivacious record of the 
multiform activity which so distinguishes this 
useful representative of letters, this cultured 
servant of democracy in public life. 

Mr. Greenslet's critical estimate of Lowell's 
work in verse and prose is conservative and 
altogether judicious. Of the thi'ee himdred 
poems included in the final edition of the works, 
less than fifty, he believes, " possess any vivid 
poetical life." Among the traits which give 
distinction to Lowell's best poetry, he empha- 
sizes : " the utter and fervent sincerity of the 
moods expressed in it"; "the amount of mind 
that lay back of it" — he finds in Lowell more 
of the Shakespearian mind than in any other 
American poet ; and " the consistent ideality 
which was both root and branch of his abound- 
ing intellectual life." These qualities, together 
with a keen, sensuous love of nature, Lowell 
had ; the indispensable gift of poetic style he 
had, also, — " but intermittently ; it is shown 
multitudinously in lines and passages, rarely 
through entire poems." For the " Conunemo- 
ration Ode " and the " Agassiz," the critic ex- 
presses natural and imqualified admiration ; it 
is, however, to the " Biglow Papers," vitalized 
by the fluent and irrepressible wit of the satirist, 
that he recurs oftenest, and with a final word 
of highest praise. In speaking of Lowell's 
prose, " savory " is the apt word with which Mr. 
Greenslet describes his style. In the best prose 
of the essayist, he finds a union of vitality and 
antiquarianism which imparts one of the chief 
charms to his diction. " Side by side with sub- 
tilely allusive phrases that tlirill the ripe reader 
with gleaming memories of old and far-oif au- 
thors will be found some breezy vocable of the 
street that strikes a sudden gust of fresh air 
across the page." It is as a critic of literature, 
Mr. Greenslet thinks, that Lowell's fame will 
probably be most enduring, at least that his 
work as a critic of literature " wiU last in greater 
bulk than anything else of his." If his criticism 
is not always temperate, not always judicious, or 
minutely accurate in scholarship, "it is, none 



the less, richer in humor, metaphor, gusto, — in 
short, in genius, — than any other critical writ- 
ing that America has protluced ; and it is not far 
surpassed in these qualities by anythmg in the 
language." With a glowing tribute to Lowell's 
potent influence in the cause of cidture and of 
conscience while alive, his biogi'apher prophesies 
the enduring potency of this many-sided talent 
suffused throughout the works of " the first true 
American man of Letters." 

In the stormy battle years of 1861-5, when 
Lowell, already secure in the fame of his early 
verse, was flashing Northern sentiment into the 
sharp and stinging lines of the second " Biglow 
Papers," Sidney Lanier was fighting as a pri- 
vate soldier under the flag of the Confederacy. 
Born in Macon, Georgia, in 1842, he had just 
completed his college course in Oglethorpe and 
had been called to a position as tutor in that 
institution, when the war broke. Lanier flung 
himself into the struggle with the same ardor 
that sent Paul Hamilton Hayne, George W. 
Cable, Maurice Thompson, and the poet Timrod 
to the support of the Southern cause. Sidney 
Lanier and his brother, Clifford, — two slender 
gray-eyed youths, inseparable in their service of 
danger and hardship — extracted all the romance 
which their experience provided. In 1863, they 
were on scout duty along the James ; Lanier 
wrote later with enthusiasm of his army life : 

" We had a flute and a guitar, good horses, a beauti- 
ful country, splendid residences inhabited by friends 
who loved us, and plenty of hair-breadth escapes from 
the roving bands of Federals. Clifl:' and I never cease 
to talk of the beautiful women, the serenades, the 
moonlight dashes on the beach of fair Burwell's Bay 
and the spirited brushes of our little force with the 
enemy." 

Poor Lanier — it is almost all there — his whole 
brief story I the brushes with the enemy, the 
hair-breadth escapes, the music and the romance, 
the boyish enthusiasm, the pluck, the heroism — 
and complaint, never ! The pathos, also, in that 
brief life of achievement, which began when 
the war closed, — that note, too, was struck 
in these prophetic years. In '64 the brothers 
were transferred to Wilmington, and placed as 
signal officers upon the blockade-runners. Here 
Sidney Lanier was captured and for five months 
was confined in the Federal prison at Camp 
Lookout ; it well-nigh became his tomb. With 
emaciated frame and shattered physique the 
young soldier went home, like so many other 
youthfrd veterans, south and north, to fight for 
life in the coming years. With Lanier the 
struggle was for both life and livelihood. He 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



121 



was twenty-three years old, unsettled as to his 
future, and under the shadow of those '• raven 
days " of the desolated and demoralized South. 
" Our hearths are gone out and our hearts are 
broken " — he plaintively sang ; yet he turned 
the plaint into a song of cheer ; still he found 
the romance. In 1867 he was married to Miss 
Mary Day, of Macon, and the poems of his 
wooing-time and of his wedded life are as tender 
and sweet as the lyrics Lowell sang to Maria 
^\Tiite. For five years Lanier tried to follow 
the law, and then, in 1873, he gave hiuLself to 
art. He went to Baltimore, alone — except for 
his flute. Lanier's flute is as famous as Lanier ; 
it is a part of his personality". Its mellow notes 
had cheered the soldier and his comrades by 
camp-fire and in prison : it had been softly 
played in many a surreptitious serenade ; but it 
was more \Nddely known than this, for Lanier 
was a musician of remarkable power, and he was 
called by many the finest flute-player in America, 
if not in the world. Lanier's musical genius is 
almost the chief element in his story. So far 
as he covdd trace his ancestry it disclosed this 
talent in its possession : in the Restoration period 
thei*e were five Laniei*s in England who were 
musicians ; in Charles I.'s time Nicholas Lanier 
was painted by Van Dyke, and ^\Tote music for 
the masques of Jonson and for the lyrics of Her- 
rick ; the father of this Nicholas was a musician 
in the household of Queen Elizabeth : thus Sid- 
ney Lanier came natiirally by his gift. In Balti- 
more, Lanier's flute secured him a jx>sition in 
the Peabody Orchestra, and furnished the means 
of living for sevei^al years. Theodore Thomas 
is said to have been on the point of making the 
artist first flute-player in his orchestra, when 
Lanier's health finally failed and he was com- 
jjelled to give up the struggle. 

But Sidney Lanier foimd also in Baltimore 
his fii"st opportunit}" to gratify what had been 
the ambition of the years since his college course 
— the opportunity to study literature and the 
scientific principles of verse. The unfulfilled 
dream of his youth had been a systematic course 
in the German universities ; this was not to be 
realized, but in the richly-equipped Peabody 
Libraiy of Baltimoi-e he found his university. 
Never was there a more assiduous student. 
Especially did he devote himseK to the field of 
Old English i^oetiy. Soon there were uiAata- 
tions to lecture, and in the city he came to have 
an established reputation as a fascinating lec- 
turer on English literature. In 1875 he first 
won i-ecognition as a poet by the publication of 
"• Com "' in " Lippincott's Magazine "; and four 



months later his more successful poem " The 
Symphony " appeared in the same magazine. 
His new friendship with Bayard Taylor pro- 
duced the in\'itation to write the words for the 
Centennial Cantata. The first collection of his 
poems was published in 1877. 

Lanier's story is less familiar to the general 
reader than is that of Lowell, and it is so com- 
pelling that we have been betrayed into these 
details. The real pathos of it may best be sug- 
gested by two quotations from his letters to his 
friend and fellow-poet, Hayne. Writing in the 
early seventies, he says : 

" I have not put pen to paper in a literary way in a 
long time. How I thirst to do so, — how I long to sing 
a thousand various songs that oppress me unsimg — is 
unexpressible. Yet the mere work that brings me 
bread gives me no time." 

Again, when the tale of his life was almost told, 
under date of November 19, 1880, he writes : 

" For six months past a ghastly fever has taken pos- 
session of me each day at about 12 m., and holding my 
head imder the siu^ace of indescribable distress for the 
next twentj- hours, subsiding only enough each morning 
to let me get on my working harness, but never inter- 
mitting. ... I have myself been disposed to think it 
arose purely from the bitterness of having to spend my 
time in making academic lectures and boys' books 
[the series of " The Boy's King Arthiu-," " The Boy's 
Froissart," etc.] — pot-boilers all — when a thousand 
songs are singing in my heart that will certainly kill 
me if I do not utter them soon." 

Yet the poet extractetl the joy of life, as he 
toiled, singing, with his "Tampa Robins" — 

'■ If that I hate wild winter's spite — 
The gibbet trees, the world in white, 
The sky but gfray wind o'er a grave — 
Why should I ache, the season's slave? 
I 'U sing from the top of the orange-tree 
Gramercy, icinter^s tyranny." 

Thus, too, through the last suffering years of 
his illness and weakness he went patiently, 
blithely : singing the song of his " Stimip-Cup " 
— his lx)ld challenge to Death : 

■■ David to thy distillage went, 
Keats, and Gotama excellent, 
Omar Khayyam, and Chaucer bright, 
And Shakespeare for a king-delight. 

" Then. Time, let not a drop be spilt : 
Hand me the cup whene'er thou wilt ; 
'Tis thy rich stirmp-cup to me ; 
1 11 drink it down right smilingly." 

In i-apid succession he ^vrote three wonderful 
poems, each a masterpiece : " The Revenge of 
Hamish,"' *' How Love looked for Hell," and 
"The Marshes of Glynn." In 1879 the poet was 
appointed to a lectureship in the Johns Hopkins 
University. The fruit of this professional con- 
nection we have in two volumes, neither of 



122 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 16, 



which is characterized by scientific precision 
or minutely accurate scholarship ; nevertheless 
" The Science of English Verse " and " The 
English Novel " are recognized as indispensable 
to the student of English literature to-day. In 
the winter of 1880-1 Lanier gave up the pam- 
fid struggle ; withdrawing from the University, 
he went for relief to the pine lands in the 
mountains of North Carolina. Here, Septem- 
ber 7, 1881, he passed away. 

This is the mere outline of the heroic life, the 
story of which has now been told by Mr. Mims. 
The characteristics of this interesting volume 
are its picturesqueness, its simplicity, its fulness 
of detail and its dispassionate discussion of 
Lanier's claims to a permanent place among our 
American poets of fame. Not the least valuable 
of its features is the intelligent and sympathetic 
presentation of the South's condition at the 
close of the war. To the general student of 
American literature, this phase of the work is 
most illuminating in relation to the recent lit- 
erary development of the South, as well as in 
the narrower relation of its influence upon the 
intellectual growth of Sidney Lanier. Mr. 
Mims's work represents the first complete bio- 
graphy of this southern poet. It is something 
of a distinction to have served as the first inter- 
preter of a character so fine and rare ; it is a 
gi'eat distinction to have performed the honor- 
able service so well. 

Lowell and Lanier : they met once, in 1875. 
Lanier was in Boston visiting Charlotte Cush- 
man, his very dear friend, then ill at the Parker 
House. Two delightful afternoons were spent 
with Longfellow and Lowell. Of this visit the 
latter afterward wrote : 

" He was not only a man of genius with a rai-e gift 
for the happy word, but had in him qualities that won 
affection and commanded respect. I had the pleasiu-e 
of seeing him but once, when he called on me ' in more 
gladsome days,' at Elm wood, but the image of his shin- 
ing presence is among the friendliest in my memory." 

LoweU and Lanier : they were somewhat alike 
in their ideality, their sincerity, their intellectu- 
ality, in the deep spiritual vision which has 
glimpses of things beyond the knowledge of the 
world ; they were not unlike in their poetic tone. 
Lanier was hardly more than thirty-nine at his 
death; what might he not have done had he 
been given ten years longer to live and sing ! 
StiU he had written the poems which we have 
named; he had written "The Song of the 
Chattahooche," the "Psalm of the West," 
" Sunrise "--and " The Marshes of Glynn." 

W. E. SiMONDS. 



An Oxford History or England.* 

In Great Britain, as upon the continent and 
in our own coimtry, the cooperative method of 
writmg history is in favor. The " Cambridge 
Modern History " now in the midst of its course 
is, of English works, the most distinguished one 
of this character ; but several have already been 
carried through, and more are promised shortly. 
Among those which are just making their ap- 
pearance, none will be regarded by students with 
greater interest than the "Political History of 
England," which is to be published, in twelve 
volumes, under the editorship of the Reverend 
William Hunt and Mr. Reginald Lane Poole. 
These names assui-e for the series warm appre- 
ciation in the world of scholarship, for Dr. 
Hmit, now President of the Royal Historical 
Society, has recently been associated with the 
Dean of Winchester in editing the best history 
of the English Church that has yet appeared ; 
while Mr. Poole, who, since Gardiner's death, 
has been sole editor of the " English Historical 
Review," has himself done much in other ways 
for the growth of historical and cartographical 
science. 

If the names of the editors are likely to in- 
spire confidence, no less can be said of the au- 
thors of the twelve volmnes. Had another title 
been sought for the work, this might well have 
been "The Oxford English History"; for not 
only the editors, but all except two of the thir- 
teen authors (one of the volumes is written by 
two men) either are now or have been coim^ected 
with Oxford University. The two exceptions 
are Mr. Thomas Hodgkin, who will write of 
England before the Norman Conquest, and Mr. 
George Burton Adams, Professor of History in 
Yale University, whose book carries the narra- 
tive from the Conquest to the end of the reigii 
of John. 

This limitation to a few authors gives each the 
opportimity for treatment of an extended period, 
and residts in solid volimies of nearly five hun- 
dred pages, instead of many individual chapters, 
as in the " Cambridge Modern History," or a 
large number of small treatises, as in " The 
American Nation." There are no illustrations 
other than a few maps, carefully prepared for 
their historical significance. An especially 

* A Political History of England. Edited by Rev. William 
Hunt, M.A., and Reginald L. Poole, M.A. Vol. II., From the 
Norman Conquest to the Death of John (1066-1216), by George 
Burton Adams. Vol. III., From the Accession of Henry III. 
to the Death of Edward III. (1216-1377). by T. F. Tout, M.A. 
Vol. X., From the Accession of George III. to the Close of 
Pitt's First Administration (1760-1801). by William Hunt. M.A. 
New York : Longmans, Green & Co. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



123 



praiseworthy feature is the thorough biblio- 
graphical apparatus appended to each volume. 

The etlitors have done their work silently. 
Thus far the volumes appear i^-ithout individual 
prefaces, and one finds no " etlitors' introduc- 
tions " beyond a two-page statement of the pur- 
pose of the work as a whole. The process of 
*' linkin g " is left to the reader, who, miassisted 
by editorial finger-posts, may find the good 
things for himself. In this respect the three 
volumes which we have now to review seem to 
us to have suffered no loss. 

These volumes are the second, third, and 
tenth of the series ; and together they amount 
to more than tliirteen himdred pages of text. It 
is evident that within the limits of a brief review, 
criticism of detail must give place to general 
suggestions. In Professor Adams's book, we 
find the period 1066-1216 handled with the 
calm judgment which the author's former writ- 
ingfs in this and kindred fields have led us to 
expect ; and we comment on this the more, by 
reason of the eonti'oversial tone which has per- 
vaded much that others have written upon the 
same topic. The reigns of the Norman and 
earlier Plantagenet kings present to the student 
many problems which even England's wealth of 
historical sources has not yet made perfectly 
clear. Much of the recent work has been rather 
destructively critical, and the reflection of this 
in Professor Adams's lx)ok leaves the reader 
with a certain feeling of negation. William, 
we are told, did not regard aU the land of the 
English as rightlv confiscate. That the manors 
of the feudal barons were scattered about in 
different parts of England must not be attrib- 
uted to a conscious intention thereby to weaken 
their power. The traditional view of the mak- 
ing of the New Forest is open to question. The 
oath at Salisburj', again, was not a very novel 
performance. These negative opinions might 
leave the student sorrowing for his departed 
faith, did not Professor Adams supply occasional 
passages upon the constitutional changes and 
social development of the period — such as the 
discussion of feudalism (pp. 14-23) or that of 
ecclesiastical affairs (pp. 38-50) — so sugges- 
tive and stiinxdating as to make one regret the 
great emphasis laid upon political history to the 
hurt of other fields. Taken as a whole, the work 
of Professor Adams covers a difficult period of 
English history with a combination of unity and 
depth that neither Sir James Ramsay nor Miss 
Norgate has completely attained. 

With the struggle over the Charter and with 
the death of John, Professor Adams leaves the 



story. It is taken up by Professor Tout, to 
whom the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries 
are familiar groiuid. This volume carries the 
narrative down to 1377, and, like the preced- 
ing one, leaves England in an age of transition, 
— the age of Froissart, of Wyclif, and of 
Chaucer. During this long and eventful time, 
but four kings ruled in England, Henry III. 
and the three Edwards, and son succeeded 
father. Two of them were great, though in very 
different ways, and with very different results 
for their land. But under all four the growth 
of England's sturdy national life went on. In 
this volimie, as in that which preceded it, we 
cannot but regret the entire subordination of 
everything to politics, which we do not believe 
to make all of history. Here only a part of the 
fourth chapter and the entire last chapter are 
devoted to those deeper changes in town and 
country, in Church and University, in law and 
art, which after all is said are what to-day inter- 
est us in mediaeval life. But with this limita- 
tion — and such it seems to be — we must not 
quarrel, for it is an intended characteristic of 
the whole series. 

From the middle ages to the reign of George 
HI. constitutes a sudden and difficult leap, and 
perhaps this fact is sufficient to account for 
the feeling of relative disappointment that we 
get from reading the tenth volume, the work of 
the editor. Dr. Hunt, which extends over the 
years 1760-1801. It seems hard for modem 
English historians who write of the eighteenth 
century to suppress their own political senti- 
ments. K Mr. Trevelyan, for example, has 
given us a Whiggish history of England, here is 
a good Tory antidote. Not that Dr. Hunt's work 
is unscientific or intentionally partisan, — on the 
contrar}- there is evidence that the writer has 
striven to be just throughout. His proclivities 
appear, however, in the descriptive adjectives 
and epithets applied to men and measures, — 
Home Tooke, for example, is always labelled, — 
as well as in the larger discussions and inter- 
pellations of events. The younger Pitt is very 
properly his hero, and King Greorge himself 
appears as a greater man than in most accounts 
of the reign. On the other hand, the Whigs in 
general, and Charles James Fox in particular, 
are handled with an acerbity which contrasts 
amusingly with the over-sympathetic estimate 
of Mr. Trevelyan. 

For revolutions Dr. Hunt has no love. Speak- 
ing of the younger Pitt he says : 

" In later days [he] altogether abandoned a liberal 
policy, for he was called on to give England that which 



124 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 16, 



is infinitely more important than liberal measures, the 
preservation of its constitutional and social life from 
the danger of revolution " (p. 283). 

This may be regarded as typical of Dr. Hunt's 
attitude. What he says of the French Rev- 
olution would indicate that he took rather a 
narrow view of the real meaning of that mighty 
struggle. Ireland fares little better. But, while 
it would be of interest to examine Dr. Hunt's 
general account of the close of the eighteenth 
century, we feel that it is more important to 
discuss briefly his attitude in respect to our own 
controversy with the mother-country. This 
attitude is strikingly like that of Chalmers, and 
is presented in a summary which the author 
gives on pages 141—142. 

"The spirit which imderlay it can be traced with 
growing distinctness since 1690 ; it was a spirit of inde- 
pendence, puritan in religion and republican in politics, 
impatient of control, self-assertive, and disposed to 
opposition. It was irritated by restraints on industry 
and commerce, and found opportmiities for expression 
ill a system which gave the colonies representative 
assemblies while it withheld rights of self-government. 
... It is to be remembered that England's colonial 
policy was then, as it is now, the most liberal in the 
world. American discontent existed before the reign 
of George III.; it was kept in check by the fear of 
French invasion. It was when that fear was removed 
that England began to enforce the restraints on com- 
merce. This change in policy fell most heavily on the 
New England provinces, where Whig tendencies were 
strongest, and specially on Massachusetts. A small and 
violent party in the province famied the flame of dis- 
content, and the attempts at taxation, which added to 
the grievances of the colonists, afforded a respectable 
cry to the fomenters of resistance. Their wish was 
aided by the apprehension aroused in the minds of their 
fellow countrymen, by the increase in the part played 
by the prerogative and by the predominance of the 
Tories in England. While men in other provinces, as 
Patrick Henry in Virginia, worked in sympathy with 
Samuel Adams and his associates, the revolution was at 
its outset engineered at Boston, and was immediately 
determined by the quarrel between Great Britain and 
Massachusetts. In the events which led to the Revo- 
lution the British government appears to have shown a 
shortsighted insistence on legal rights and a contemptu- 
ous disregard of the sentiments and opinions of the 
colonists ; the revolutionists generally a turbulent, inso- 
lent, and unreasonable temper." 

With the narrative of the bare events of the 
Revolution we have little faidt to find, but Dr. 
Hunt's interpretation of these, and his grasp 
of colonial conditions, seem to us not entirely 
satisfying. Let us take for example his descrip- 
tion of the colonies found on page 54. 

"Though Puritanism as a religious force was well nigh 
extinct in the Xew England provinces, it affected the 
temper of the people : they set a high value on speech 
making and fine words, and were litigious and obsti- 
nate ; lawyers were plentif id among them and had much 
influence." 



Dr. Hunt fails to mention that the legal pro- 
fession, in New York, Pennsylvania, Maryland, 
and Virginia, was of longer training and of 
greater reputation : indeed his references to the 
middle and southern colonies is in general unsat- 
isfactory. Again the author goes on to say : 

" Their [the colonies'] constitutions differed in vari- 
ous points; in some the governor was appointed by the 
crown, in others by the proprietary. All alike enjoyed 
a large measure of personal and political freedom ; the 
had the form and substance of the British Constitution : 
they had representative assemblies in which they taxed 
themselves for their domestic purposes, chose most of 
their own magistrates, and paid them all; and it was 
seldom that their legislation was interfered with except 
with respect to commerce." 

Such general statements are hazardous. In the 
proprietary provinces, in 1760, the governors, 
although nominated indeed by the proprietors, 
were subject to the approval and control of the 
crown. In Rhode Island and Connecticut, on 
the contrary, the governors were elected, and 
not appointed at all. As to the choosing of mag- 
istrates, the statement in the text would have, 
in the case of some colonies, e. g. Maryland, to 
undergo serious limitation. If customs officers 
are to be included, not all magistrates were paid 
by the assemblies, and if the last clause be 
literally true, surely such important exceptions 
as the vetoes and prohibitory legislation of En- 
gland as to paper money, land-banks, and tobacco 
currency shoidd at least be mentioned. 

In this one respect like Mr. Lecky', Dr. Hunt 
emphasizes the conunercial system as the chief 
source of colonial irritation. His account of tliat 
system, however, is somewliat loose. There was 
no Navigation Act of 1657 (p. 55). It should 
be explained why hefore 1733 trade with the 
French West Indies was "^contraband " (j). 56). 

We have ventured thus far into detail not 
because Dr. Himt's conclusions are necessarily 
erroneous, but because it seems that they are 
rather dogmatic. Against mmor errors of fact 
or of exaggeration we are glad to set the general 
accuracy of the narrative, and the very fair- 
minded judgment of Washington's career, and 
the calm acceptance of the justice of Andre's 
execution. Finally, with reference to Dr. Hunt's 
general estimate of our rebellion, we feel that 
the chief deficiency again residts from the 
concentration of attention upon the legal and 
political sides of the struggle. Revolutionary 
politics, in very truth, were not always savory : 
it is only on the deeper grounds of social and 
economic development that the real imderstand- 
ing wUl some day be reached. 

St. George L. Sioussat. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



125 



Recext American Poetry.* 



The poetical work of Mr. Lloyd Mifflin is always 
serious and deserving of respectful attention. Dur- 
ing the last ten or twelve years it has been put forth 
in a series of small volumes that students of Ameri- 
can literature have learned to greet with welcome 
and appreciation. By reason of being so scattered, 
his work has failed of its full effect, and has made 
something less of an impression than it should. It 
is f)articularly in the sonnet that Mr. Mifflin has 
worked, and now that he has brought together no 
less than three hundred and fifty of his sonnets into 
a single stately volume, it is possible to get a clearer 
and more comprehensive view of his total achieve- 
ment tlian has hitherto been vouchsafed. This book 
of sonnets is assm*edly a worthy memorial of the 
poet's many yeai-s of endeavor. The sonnets are 
highly finished, and in the orthodox form, except 
for an intentional departure in one or two special 
cases, for which artistic justification is not lacking. 
Their range is wide, their diction is noble, and their 
idealism is of the finer sort. Their excellence, 
moreover, is so even that it is peculiarly difficult to 
make a representative selection. "With much hesita- 
tion, we reproduce '• The Victor." which is at least as 
fine as any. although no finer tlian a score of others. 

" I am the Shadow. — I whose brooding wings 

Are gray with £eons. I depopulate 

The world : and all yon peopled stars await 

My ravenous scythe. Through ehamel dust of kings 
I come, spuming the scepters. Though the stings 

Of adders still are mine, I bear no hate. 

But am beneficent. Minion of Fate, 

I am the mausoleum of all things. 
Stem and implacable sovereign of the dead. 

But friend to him down-trampled in the strife. 

I, shrouded, cryptic, through the darkness go 
Silent for ever : yet it hath been said 

I lift the portals leading unto Life. . . . 

And thou, at last, — it may be thou shalt know." 

It might be urged that the arresting thought, the 
memorable phrase, rarely occurs in Mr. Mifflin's 
work ; it might also be urged that he does not always 
escape the temptation of fluency, that his ornament 
is often purely rhetorical and that he resorts too 

•CoixECTED So>-KETS OF LtoYD MiFFUs. Rerlsed bj the 
author. Xew York : Henry Frowde. 

The Poems of Tbcmbcix Stickxby. Boston: Houghton, 
Mifflin & Co. 

Ix THE Heights. By Richard Watson Gilder. New York: 
The Century Co. 

The Vale of Tempe. By Madison J. Cawein. New York: 
E. P. Dutton & Co. 

The Great AD\-Ej«TrRE. By George Cabot Lod^re. Boston: 
Houghton. Mifflin & Co. 

The V.alley of Dreams. By H. Hayden Sands. Boston: 
Alfred Bartlett. 

Old La30>s and New. and Other Verse. By Edward Willard 
Watson. M.D. Philadelphia: H. W. Fisher & Co. 

Perdita. and Other Poems. By Charles J. Bayne. Atlanta : 
Cole Book Co. 

Poems. By Robert Chenault Givler. Published by the author. 

A SorTHERN Flight. By Frank Dempster Sherman and Clin- 
ton Scollard. Clinton. N. Y. : George William Browning. 

New World Lyrics and Ballads. By Duncan Campbell 
Scott. Toronto : Morang & Co. 

The Collected Poems of Wilfred Campbell. New York: 
Fleming H. Revell Co. 



much to conventional imagery. We do not press 
these points, because taken altogether they merely 
prove that Mr. Mifflin does not quite do what only 
the supreme masters of the sonnet have done. There 
can be no doubt, in the presence of this collection, 
that he has given proof of a true poetic gift, and made 
a considerable contribution to American literature. 

The late Joseph Trumbull Stickney was born in 
1874, was graduated from Harvard in 1895, and 
died in 1904. He won high universitj' honors, at 
Cambridge and afterwards at the French University, 
and during the last year of his life was an instructor 
at Harvard. Most of his manhood and much of 
his childhood was spent abroad. These facts are 
gleaned from the Biographical Note with which his 
literary executors have prefaced the volimie of his 
collected "Poems." The contents of this volume 
include a reprint of the " Dramatic Verses " pub- 
lished in 1902, some incomplete dramatic studies, 
a considerable collection of " Later Lyrics," besides 
sections of " Juvenilia " and " Fragments." They 
represent practically the whole poetical achievement 
of a man who was both a brilliant scholar and a 
promising poet a poet whose work fairly justifies 
his being reckoned among "the inheritors of unful- 
filled renown." Promise rather than fulfillment is 
the mark of this work as a whole, for it reveals 
Stickney as stUl groping for a distinctive manner 
rather than as having reached a definitive expression 
of his powers. Reviewing his first volume, we were 
compelled to speak of its "jarring staccato," its 
" far-fetched epithets," and •• its endeavor to be im- 
pressive at the cost of clear thinking and verbal 
restraint." The " Later Ljnics " now first printed 
show us the process of fermentation still at work, 
but serve also to deepen our sense of the poet's pos- 
sibilities. Such a sonnet as this on " Mt. Ida " is no 
mean performance, and may be taken as illustrating 
the highest level of his attainment. 

" I long desired to see. I now have seen. 
Yonder the heavenly everlasting bride 
Draws the white shadows to her virgin side, 
Ida, whom long ago God made his Queen. 
The daylight weakens to a fearful sheen ; 
The mountains slumber seaward sanctified, 
And cloudy shafts of bluish vapour hide 
The places where a sky and world have been. 
O Ida, snowy bride that God espoused 
Unto that day that never wholly is. 
Whiten thou the horizon of my eyes. 
That when the momentary sea aroused 
Flows up in earthquake, still thou mayest rise 
Sacred above the quivering Cyclades." 

This is the first of a g^oup of three sonnets inscribed 
to the sacred mountain, and the other two move upon 
the same serene height of imag^ative vision. 

Mr. Gilder's verse exhibits something of the heroic 
optimism of his own " Singer of Joy." 

" He sang the rose, he praised its fragant breath ; 
(Alas, he saw the gnawing worm beneath.) 
He sang of summer and the flowing grass ; 
(He knew that all the beauty quick would pass.) 
He said the world was good and skies were fair ; 
(He saw far, gathering clouds, and days of care.) 



126 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 16, 



Immortally he sang pure friendship's flame ; 

(Yet had he seen it shrivel to a name.) 

And, ah, he praised true love, with golden speech ; 

(What though it was a star he could not reach.) 

His songs in every soul the hero woke ; 

(He in the shadows waited the last stroke.) 

He was the singer of the joyous art ; 

(Down to the grave he bore a broken heart.)" 

Mr. Gilder draws morals from nature no less than 
from human life, as the following stanzas attest : 

" The clouds upon the mountains rest ; 
A gloom is on the autumn day ; 
But down the valley, in the west, 

The sudden sunlight breaks its way, — 
A light lies on the farther hills. 

" Forget thy sorrow, heart of mine ! 

Though shadows fall and fades the leaf. 
Somewhere is joy, though 'tis not thine ; 
The power that sent can heal thy griei ; 
And light lies on the farther hills. 

" Thou wouldst not with the world be one 

If ne'er thou knewest hurt and wrong ; 

Take comfort, though the darkened sun 

Never again bring gleam or song, — 

The light lies on the farther hills." 

The majority of Mr. Gilder's new poems are occa- 
sional, and few know as well as he how to find the 
fitting word or the felicitous phrase with which to 
celebrate a friend, or a cause, or a memory. His 
tributes to Joseph Jefferson and John Wesley are 
models of this kind of composition. 

" The Vale of Tempe " is, according to a list of 
titles printed at the back of the book, Mr. Cawein's 
sixteenth volume of verse. If he should live long 
enough, there may some time be a sixtieth. " All 
Art 's over long," he remarks in the motto supplied 
for the present collection, yet we cannot help feeling 
that literature is the richer for these new poems, 
albeit they strike notes long familiar to his readers. 
Of our present-day ministrants at nature's shrine, 
he is perhaps the most unceasing and ardent in his 
devotions, and inexhaustible is the store of poetic 
fancy that he consecrates to the object of his wor- 
ship. We quote the lyric called " Revealment." 

" A sense of sadness in the golden air, 
A pensiveness, that has no part in care, 

As if the Season, by some woodland pool. 
Braiding the early blossoms in her hair, 
Seeing her loveliness reflected there, 

Had sighed to find herself so beautiful. 

" A breathlessness, a feeling as of fear, 
Holy and dim as of a mystery near. 

As if the World about us listening went. 
With lifted finger, and hand-hollowed ear. 
Hearkening a music that we cannot hear. 

Haunting the quickening earth and firmament. 

" A prescience of the soul that has no name, 
Expectancy that is both wild and tame, 

As if the Earth, from out its azure ring 

Of heavens, looked to see, as white as flame, — 
As Perseus once to chained Andromeda came,- — 

The swift, divine revealment of the Spring," 

The volume contains many other poems as exquisite 
as this ; indeed, the most surprising thing about Mr. 



Cawein's work is the even excellence which charac- 
terizes so great a quantity of matter. 

" The Great Adventure " is a volume of sonnets 
by Mr. George Cabot Lodge. His themes are the 
major triad of Life, Love, and Death. The third 
section is particularly dedicated to the memory of 
Trumbull Stickney, and includes the following son- 
net, which we quote, not as one of the best, but as 
the one which explains the title of the collection : 

" He said : ' We are the Great Adventurers, 
This is the Great Adventure : thus to be 
Alive and, on the universal sea 
Of being, lone yet dauntless mariners. 

In the rapt outlook of astronomers 

To rise thro' constellated gyres of thought ; 
To fall with shattered pinions, overwrought 
With flight, like unrecorded Lueif ers : — 

Thus to receive identity, and thus 

Return at last to the dark element, — 
This is the Great Adventure ! ' All of us, 

Who saw his dead, deep-visioned eyes, could see, 
After the Great Adventure, inmianent, 
Splendid and strange, the Great Discovery I " 

We also quote the sonnet that comes next, as illus- 
trative of the poet's occasional habit of experiment- 
ing in tetrameters. 

" Above his heart the rose is red. 

The rose above his head is white, 

The crocus glows with golden light. 

The Spring returns, and he is dead ! 
We hark in vain to hear his tread. 

We reach to clasp his hand in vain ; 

Tho' life and love return again 

We can no more be comforted. 
With tearless eyes we keep steadfast 

His vigil we were sworn to keep : 

But, when he left us, and at last 
We saw him pass beyond the Door, 

And knew he could return no more. 

We wept aloud as children weep." 

High praise must be given to the thoughtful and 
imaginative qualities of Mr. Lodge's verse ; he is a 
poet who is visibly gi'owing with each new volume 
he puts forth, and who may be expected to go far. 

"The Valley of Dreams," by Mr. H. Hayden 
Sands, is a volume of lyrics possessing much medi- 
tative charm and a considerable degi-ee of technical 
excellence. A representative poem is the following : 

" Why shed the bitter tears of Death 

For that which cannot be ; 
Why long to linger in the breaflh 

Of brief Mortality. 
A brighter Star shall light the Night — 
A gladder ending crowns the Fight. 

" Should we lament the fading rose ? 

The rose shall once more bloom. 
The smiling flower that upgrows 

Around To-morrow's tomb. 
Though unperceived unto our eyes 
Fairer shall bloom to other skies. 

" And when at last we two shall pass 

Into the great Unknown, 
And coming flowers through the grass 

Their deathless seed have sown. 
We, too, shall see a brighter day. 
Brighter than all long passed away." 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



127 



We note an occasional tendency to resort to eccen- 
tricities of diction, of which the following are illus- 
trations : 

" With kisses sweet she tended it, 
And 'neath its fragrant boon. 
Within her wild hair bended it 
And sangeth to the moon." 

" What a joyous life is yours ! 

What a life of thoughtless hours ! 
Winging on your pleasant tours, 

Through Midsummer's fragrant bowers." 

" From her tresses all woven and spangled, 

With those drops the night mignonettes wear, 
I caught from the odor which tangled, 

My heart as a rose in her hair, 
The attollent Love that was there, — 
That Pain of all Pains that was there." 

The last example is rather cheap Poe, the second 
turns liberty to license in the matter of pronunciar 
tion, and of the first we can do no better than repeat 
a memorable dictum, and say : " This will never do." 
Nevertheless, Mr. Sands is no little of a poet, and 
we have read his verses with pleasure. Their form of 
publication is of a nature to delight the bookish sense. 
" Old Lamps and New " is a volume of lyrics and 
sonnets by Dr. Edward WUlard Watson. They are 
love songs for the most part, and the mingled joy and 
poignancy of belated love is their characteristic theme. 

" The long g^y shadows creep and closer fall, 
The cool night winds across the meadows call ; 
High in the pallid sky the wan, white moon 
Swims slowly in the silence over all — 
Ah, Love, you weep that night must come so soon. 

" The sweetness of thy love steals over me ; 
Life never gave me love till I loved thee, 
Now, at the eve ; I missed thee all the noon ; 
So short they seem, the hours that yet may be — 
Ah, Love, you weep that night must come so soon. 

'' My arms are close around thee, and they press 
Unto my heart thy perfect loveliness ; 
Shall I scorn Fortune's dear belated boon ? 
Because the hours are few is joy the less ? — 
Yet still you weep that death must come so soon." 

A pretty fancy, but no particular depth of emo- 
tion, characterizes Mr. Bayne's volume of verse. 
"Afloat" is a pleasing example. 

" Ah I could we ever drift and dream 

In these cool coverts of repose, 
The world, like yonder restless stream 

Which vainly sparkles as it flows, 
Would leave beneath thy sweet control 
The calmed Propontis of my sonl. 



" Still, if in this enchanted sphere 

No longer we may drift and dream, 
'Tis ours at least to wake and steer, 

'Tis ours to leave the restless stream, 
And twine from roses of to-day 
A garland for some happier May." 

Sometimes, as in "There are other eyes in Spain," 
we have society verse pure and simple. 

" There are other eyes in Spain, — 
Dark and dazzling eyes, Crncita, 

Rosebud lips which wait the rain 
Like the harvest for Demeter. 

Do not distance with disdain : 

There are other eyes in Spain." 



Mr. Robert Chenault Givler is the author of a 
volume of -'Poems," printed upon bufE paper, and 
bearing no evidence of its place of origin. The 
contents are given over to musings and raptures, 
silvery moonlight and gentle melancholy, abstract 
questionings and meditations upon nature, life, love, 
and eternity. We quote these striking lines upon 
the " Violoncello ": 

'* What hand first formed thee, Wind-harp of the soul ? 
Not that of man ; this scroll, these curves and strings 
Are faded memories of immortal things 
Our spirits saw ere Time began to roll 
His fretful stream 'twixt both eternities. 

" What sound is that, which floats upon the breeze 
Like a lost star searching the cave of night 
For hiding place, to soothe its virgin light 
Li the soft sobbing of the forest wind ? 
The tremulous sound grows softer than the dew 
That slips between the leaves, and sweeter stall 
Than sound of pebbles toyed by midnight rill." 

These lines are undoubtedly poetry, and they rep- 
resent only a fair average of the author's gift of 
expression. 

" A Southern Flight " is a small volume of ten- 
der and gfraceful lyrics, the joint production of two 
singers whose note is always clear and pure. Mr. 
Frank Dempster Sherman signs " At Dusk." 

" The air is filled with scent of musk 

Blown from the garden's court of bloom, 
Where rests the rose within her room 
And dreams her fragrance in the dusk. 

'' Above, attended by the stars, 

The full moon rises, round and white, — 
A boat in the blue Nile of night 
Drifting amid the nenuphars." 

" And now the whippoorwill who knows 
A lyric ecstasy divine 
Begins his song. Ah ! sweetheart mine. 
What shall love's answer be, my Rose ? " 

Mr. Clinton Scollard is the other poet, and he it is 
who thus sings "At Twilight": 

" A little shallow silver urn, 

High in the west the new moon hnng ; 
Amid the palms a fountain flung 
Its snowy floss, and there, above. 
With its impassioned unconcern, 

A hidden bird discoursed of love. 

" I felt your hand upon my arm 
Flutter as doth a thrush's wing, 
Then tighten. Sweet, how small a thing 
Draws kindred spirits heart to heart ! 
More was that hour's elusive charm 
To US than eloquence or art." 

Mr. Duncan Campbell Scott's " New World Lyrics 
and Ballads " includes several pieces in somewhat 
ruder measures than are acceptable to a sensitive 
ear, but contains also a few poems as good as any 
that the author has previously published. We are 
particularly impressed with the truth and high spir- 
itual beauty of " The House of the Broken-Hearted." 

" It is dark to the outwsird seeming, 
Wherever its walls may rise, 
Where the meadows are a-dreaming, 
Under the open skies. 



128 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 16, 



Where at ebb the great world lies, 

Dim as a sea uncharted, 
Round the house of sorrow, 

The house of the broken-hearted. 

" It is dark in the midst of the city, 

^Vhere the world flows deep and strong, 
Where the coldest thing is pity, 

Where the heart wears out ere long. 

Where the plow -share of wrath and of wrong 

Trenches a ragged fuiTow, 
Round the house of the broken-hearted. 
The house of sorrow. 

" But while the world goes unheeding 
The tenant that holds the lease, 
Or fancies him grieving and pleading 
For the thing which it calls peace, 
There has come what shall never cease 

Till there shall come no morrow 
To the house of the broken-hearted 
The house of sorrow. 

" There is peace no pleasure can jeopard, 
It is so sure and deep. 
And there, in the guise of a shepherd, 
Grod doth him keep ; 
He leads His beloved sheep 

To fold when the day is departed. 
In the house of sorrow. 

The house of the broken-hearted." 

If we might make further quotations, they should 
be of " A Nest of Hepaticas." 

" O Passion of the coming of the spring ! 
When the light love has captured everytliing. 
When all the winter of the year's dry prose 
Is rhymed to rapture, rhythmed to the rose." 

Or of the " Night Hymns on Lake Nepigon ": 

" Sing Ave the sacred ancient hymns of the churches. 
Chanted first in old-world nooks of the desert, 
While in the wild, pellucid Nepigon reaches 
Hunted the savage. 

" Now have the ages met in the Northern midnight. 
And on the lonely, loon-haunted Nepigon reaches 
Rises the hymn of triumph and courage and comfort, 
Adeste Fideles." 

The Canadian poets certainly hold their own with 
our minstrels on this side of the border. As we 
opened the present review with the collected verse 
of one of our own most serious singers, so we will 
close it with " The Collected Poems of Wilfred 
Campbell," a poet whose inspiration is both strong 
and sustained. We set no particular store by the 
fact that an American Maecenas has purchased an 
edition of this volume for distribution among the 
various libraries of his foundation. It is a fact useful 
for advertising purposes, just as President Roose- 
velt's recent laudation of " The Children of the 
Night " was useful, but in neither case does the dis- 
tinction have any critical weight, for it might just 
as easily have fallen to some far less meritorious 
work. But Mr. Campbell's poetry, quite independ- 
ently of this sort of uncritical patronage, deserves 
serious consideration, and the volume of it, now 
brought together, is surprisingly large. It is classi- 
fied in eight divisions, of which the first, called 
" Elemental and Human Verse," comes perhaps the 
nearest to exhibiting the predominant notes of the 



whole. In other words, nature and the soul of man 
are the lofty themes which inspire the poet through- 
out. But the natm'e of Mr. Campbell's interpreta- 
tion is not the conventionalized and sophisticated 
affair of the bookish poet ; it is the universal mother 
conceived of in her elemental and passionate char- 
acters, sung of in strains of intimate sympathy and 
rapturous communion. And his conception of the 
soul of man is that of " man the hoper, man the 
dreamer, the eternal child of delight and despair 
whose ideals are ever a lifetime ahead of his greatest 
accomplishments, who is the hero of nature and the 
darling of the ages. Because of this, true poetry 
will always be to him a language, speaking to him 
from the highest levels of his being, and a sort of 
translation from a more divine tongue emanating 
from the mystery and will of God." These words 
are taken from the dignified confession of poetical 
faith with which the collection is prefaced. Trans- 
lated into verse a few pages further on, the thought 
thus takes form : 

" Earth's dream of poetry will never die. 
It lingers while we linger, base or true — 
A part of all this being. Life may change. 
Old customs wither, creeds become as nought, 
Like autumn husks in rainwinds ; men may kill 
All memory of the greatness of the past, 
Kingdoms may melt, republics wane and die. 
New dreams arise and shake this jaded world ; 
But that rare sjjirit of song will breathe and live 
While beauty, sorrow, greatness hold for men 
A kinship with the eternal ; until all 
That earth holds noble wastes and fades away." 

The greater part of the work now collected has 
made a previous appearance in other forms, and we 
have more than once paid tribute to its sincerity and 
beauty. Besides this lyrical work, Mr. Campbell 
has to his account eight poetical dramas, which he 
promises to collect for us into a companion volume. 
William Morton Payne. 



Briefs on N^eav Books. 



A coruribuiion ^he " Portfolio " monogi-aphs, one 
to the study of of the most valuable series on artistic 
DutcJi paintinu. subjects in English, has recently, 
after several years' interregnum, given us matter for 
congratulation in the publication of Sir Walter Arm- 
strong's volume on " The Peel Collection and the 
Dutch School of Painting" (Dutton). The purpose 
of the author, one of the most discriminating of art 
critics, is to refute that premature judgment of 
Ruskin which is quoted from the opening pages of 
his " Modern Painters " to the effect that " most 
pictures of the Dutch School, except always those 
of Rubens, Van Dyke, and Rembrandt, are ostenta- 
tious exhibitions of the artist's power of speech, the 
clear and vigorous elocution of useless and senseless 
words." Sir Walter doubts if this be true, and 
shows convincingly that the great Dutch painters 
speak " the same language as the gi'eat Italians of 
the sixteenth century or the great Athenians of 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



129 



.4 practical 
believer in the 
Golden Rule. 



twenty centuries before." Although the book nomi- 
nally deals only with the pictures in the Peel Col- 
lection, it is reaUy a monograph on the whole Dutch 
School. In his treatment of the painters of still life, 
of landscape, and of portraits, the author makes 
clear who are the greatest masters in each gi'oup and 
gives his reasons for their rank. Ajiiong artists of 
the present day om* critic will find ready sympathy 
for all that he says in regard to the slight impor- 
tance of subject as compared with the supreme 
imi)ortance of style, of artistic worth. The chief 
difference between the Dutch and Italian artists, so 
Sir Walter argues, lies in their choice of subject. 
The landscapes and the models which these painters 
of the North portray are inferior in beauty to those 
which naturally served as material for the artists of 
the South. Yet no ai-t has ever been condemned j 
for the humbleness of its subject-matter. Among 
the many interesting points in this book are the 
author's illustrations of the famUiar idea that a work 
of art is the interpretation of natm'e through the 
tempei-ament of the artist. He makes another good 
point in what he says about the focus of a painting, 
— the size and character of the brush-strokes in 
relation to the size of the painting and to the dis- 
tance proper to a correct view. Since this is not a 
histoiy of j)ainting. but a critical monograph, the 
author is perfectly justified in omitting discussion of 
certain important painters, as Hals and Rembrandt, 
who are not represented in the Peel Collection. 
The volume is perhaps the best contribution to the 
critical study of Dutch painting since the publication 
of "Les JSIaitres d' Autrefois" (1875). It will 
enhance the appreciation of these great painters. It 
is something new in the literature of art. Its criti- 
cism is fresh and stimulating. It is a book which 
eveiy lover of the Dutch School should possess, in 
order to read and re-read. 



In his Introduction to the " Letters 
of Labor and Love," by the late 
Mayor Jones of Toledo, Mr. Brand 
Whitlock has said, better than can the re\4ewer, 
those things the reviewer would wish to say. And 
after a careful reading of these letters, written by 
" Golden Rule " Jones to his working-men, one feels 
that they must appeal to every fair-minded reader, 
as they do to Mr. Whitlock, as the simple and 
spontaneous expression of the beliefs of a spiritxud- 
minded yet singularly practical man, with a gen- 
erous and abiding faith in his fellow-men. The 
predominant idea of the book is that of libert}'. 
There is scarcely a letter in which the writer does 
not recur to the thought of greater liberty and 
equality among men. The story of Mayor Jones's 
life is well known, — how he rose, as the result of 
an invention of his own, from the position of a 
humble worker in the oil-fields to a place of wealth 
and authority : how he educated himself in no mean 
manner ; how he put in practice the beliefs that he j 
formulated ; how his life so won upon the people I 
that he was elected to office again and again, over j 



the heatls of party candidates ; and how in his death 
he was mourned as many greater men are not. It 
was this living out and living up to his beliefs that 
won such results ; he was no mere theoidst, and hav- 
ing decided for himself what was the cause of much 
of the unhappiness in the world, he did his utmost 
to overcome this unhappiness by what he considered 
just and fair treatment of the working-man. These 
letters show plainly what were his principles of 
action : in one particularly ( •• Politics," written the 
next day after election, in 1900), he states his jwlit- 
ical belief in no imcertain terms. 

" I am for a social and political order that will be true in 
every detail to the idea of Elquality, that all men are created 
equal. I am for a social system that will grant to every 
baby bom on the planet equality of opportunity with every 
other baby. I am against a system that destroys a few by 
making them inordinately rich, while it destroys many by 
making them inordinately poor. I am for peace, for har- 
mony, for heaven ; I am against war and hat« and helL I am 
against government by force anywhere, and for government 
by consent everywhere. . . . My only hope, and all of my 
hope, is in the patriotism of the people, the love of man for 
man ; I have no hope in any kind of partyism." 

A man who believed these things so strongly, who 
acted them out in his daily life to the best of his 
power and opportunity, who refused a nomination 
to Congress because he would not be bound by any 
party expectations or party ties ; and who did his 
best to spread his ideas because he was convinced 
they were right, would always be sure of a following. 
As the most forcible and significant utterances of 
such a man, these letters should find a ready wel- 
come not only among his admirers but also among 
all who are interested in the deeper problems of 
societj-. (Bobbs-MerrUl Co. ) 

A monumental ''J^^^e are few to whom this book 
edition of will seem worth while," writes Pro- 

Georye Herbert, fgssor George Herbert Palmer in the 
preface to his three-volume edition of the English 
works of George Herbert (Houghton, Mifflin & 
Co. ) . "'It embodies long labor, spent on a minor 
poet, and will probably never be read entire by any- 
one. But that is a reason for its existence. Lavish- 
ness is its aim. The book is a box of spikenard, 
poured in unappeasable love over one who has 
attended my life." The result of this great labor of 
love is probably the most minute and exhaustive 
edition of an English minor poet that has ever been 
published. Nearly one-half of the first volume is 
filled by a series of Introductory Essays dealing 
with matters essential to a general understanding of 
Herbert's poetrj- ; such as the great events of his 
time, his life and character, the type of his religious 
verse, his style and technique. Most important of 
all is the essay explaining and justifying the 'man- 
ner in which Professor Palmer has arranged and 
grouped the poems. Chronology and subject-matter 
resolve them into twelve significant groups, to each 
of which special prefaces are furnished. Professor 
Pabner's essays are terse, direct, and pithy, felicitous 
in their combination of tii'eless scholarly research 
and infectious enthusiasm. The notes to the poems 



130 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 16, 



are voluminous, but a simple classification makes 
selection among them easy. They include explana- 
tions of the text, cross-references to similar passages 
in Herbert or his contemporaries, and the most illu- 
minating comments and illustrations that have been 
proposed by previous editors. The illustrations 
" attempt to exhibit whatever portions of Herbert's 
visible world have survived the centm-ies." They 
show his homes, the churches with which he was con- 
nected, his portraits, — including what was probably 
the original of them all, not hitherto published, — and 
many interesting facsimiles of his manuscripts and 
printed works. The prose writings are included partly 
for their intrinsic interest, but more for the light they 
throw ujwn the man and the poems, upon which it 
is Professor Palmer's great wish to concentrate 
attention. Type, paper, and binding are of the finest 
quality, so that no pains have been spared to make 
the new edition as notable in mechanical features 
as it is rich in scholarship and in inspiration. It 
will be long before the edition is superseded as a 
final effort to reconstnict the personality and inter- 
pret the vital message of George Herbert. 

Expe^-iences v^ith I" ^x-s. Kate V. St. Maur's "A Self- 
a self-supporting supporting Home" (Macmillan), we 
country home. find, not a book for the mere nature- 
lover, and certainly not one for or by the theoretical 
farmer, but one in which the author has endeavored 
to set down such results of her experiences as will 
help others who wish to make an attempt as earnest 
if not as extended as her own. She was moved to 
try to make a dream come true, and by means of 
advertising she obtained a farm of twelve acres, not 
far from the city, containing a number of old build- 
ings and a small orchard. Her endeavor was to 
make this rented place support itself ; and beginning 
with six setting hens, she gradually added ducks, 
guinea-hens, and rabbits, until the place became a 
veritable stock-farm, while at the same time the gar- 
den supplied the table, and the family savings soon 
purchased a cow. After the first year and a half 
she found herself able to bank the sum previously 
spent in living expenses. The chief thing is that, 
instead of experiencing discomfort and privations, 
the family lived in greater comfort and happiness 
than before. As might be expected, the book in 
which such experiences and triumphs are unfolded 
is quite different from the ordinary garden books, 
although it contains seasonable advice about the 
vegetable and fruit garden, the mushroom bed, the 
care and feeding of poultry, ducks, geese, guinea- 
hens, rabbits, the cow, pigeons, the family horse, 
bees, turkeys, pheasants, choice cats, and pigs. The 
author's directions are simple and untechnical, and 
generally clear, for she has borne in mind her own 
unfortunate experiences in consulting expert refer- 
ence-books. There are also many suggestions and 
time-saving and labor-saving devices that only a 
woman would think of ; so that, while the volume 
contains information useful for any amateur, it is 
preeminently of value to the woman who wishes to 



undertake a small farm or to make an individual 
income by means of one or more of the pursuits 
described. Its arrangement is good, gi'ouping under 
each month the work and preparations esjjecially 
suited to the period, and summing up the author's 
ten-years' experience in the way most likely to be 
helpful to the reader. She writes with that tem- 
pered enthusiasm that is apt to be convincing ; and 
although she takes her subject seriously, she allows 
herself occasional touches of humor. There are 
many illustrations from photograplis, and a detailed 
table of contents, but no index. 



More of The Messrs. Putnam's Sons, who 

Sainte-Beuve's 11.171111 1. , . 1 

"Portraits" ^^^^ ^^"^ brought out a two-volume 
in English. selection from Sainte-Beuve's work 

entitled " Portraits of the Seventeenth Century," 
have done a further service to English readers by 
publishing in translation two uniform volumes of 
his "Portraits of the Eighteenth Century." Miss 
Katharine Wormeley, whose supple and finished ren- 
dering of Sainte-Beuve's delightfidly spontaneous 
style commended itself to readers of the other series, 
has translated the " Portraits " contained in the first 
of the new volumes, and Mr. George Burnham Ives 
has done very acceptable work in the second. As 
before, the studies have been chosen with a view to 
representing the best of both the historic and the 
literary criticism of Sainte-Beuve. There have 
been slight omissions of passages lacking in present 
interest, and where several essays upon one person 
exist they have been combined, omitting repeti- 
tions. The volumes are illustrated with portraits, 
and handsomely bound in buckram. M. Edmond 
Scherer's appreciation of Sainte-Beuve, written in 
October, 1869, at the time of the latter's death, 
forms an illuminating introduction to the first vol- 
ume. At a time when criticism has become a business 
rather than a vocation, it is worth while to recall 
M. Scherer's account of Sainte-Beuve's aims and 
methods, — of the slow but sm-e development of his 
critical bent, — and we must inevitably wonder, with 
him, whether " the royalty of letters is not fated to 
pass away like the other royalties," or whether out of 
the " general mediocrity " of English criticism there 
wiU ever arise another Sainte-Beuve. Meanwhile 
for delicacy, good taste, profundity of research, and 
brilliancy of finish, his work remains unique, and 
well deserves the tribute of adequate translation and 
sumptuous publication now being rendered it. 

A Netv England ^"^ cannot read such a book as Dr. 
physician of James Jackson Putnam's Memoir 
the old school, ^f -Qv. James Jackson (Houghton, 
Mifflin «fc Co.) without more than a passing regret 
for the days of the old-fashioned family physician. 
How cui'ious now-a-days to read that Stephen Hig- 
ginson engaged the young Dr. Jackson "to make 
daily visits to his wife and children, sick or well," — 
a plan which the present generation recognizes as 
Chinese rather than American. But Dr. Jackson 
was a man worthy of such responsibility, and soon 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



131 



"made himself a trusted counsellor of the house- 
hold in all matters, a part which he was destined 
to play eventually for many families of the town." 
No wonder that the ''town" of Boston flourished, 
when such eminent talent guided the everyday 
affairs of its citizens I How gracious a character 
this office of counseUor-at-large developed in Dr. 
Jackson himself the present Memoir most readahly 
sets fortli. Dr. Holmes — his cousin of a younger 
generation — not only describes him in the two 
poems " A Portrait " and '• The Morning Visit," 
but says of him, " I have seen many noted British 
and French and American practitioners, but I never 
saw the man so altogether admu-able at the bedside 
of the sick as Dr. James Jackson." As able in 
adminLstration and in teaching as in practice, Dr. 
Jackson was one of the founders of the Massar 
chusetts General Hospital, and the first to occupy 
the chair of clinical medicine in the Harvard Med- 
ical School. Dr. Putnam's Memoir is in many 
respects an ideal biography, not oidy because it 
presents a most attractive character satisfactorily, 
but because it makes the background of people and 
places, from which that character emerged, just 
clear enough. About one third of the volimie is de- 
voted to Dr. Jackson's ancestors and brothers, a pro- 
portion not too large in \new of the important part 
they played in the early history of Massachusetts. 

The idolatry ^' ^^hii^&toi Gladdeu's latest book 
of wealth " The New Idolatry" ( McClure, Phil- 

in A mertca . jjpg ^ Qq^ ) is "■ a volume of discussions 
in protest against the commercializing of government, 
of education, and of religion ; against the growing 
tendency in Church and State to worship power and 
forget the interests of justice and freedom : against 
the dethronement of Grod and the enthronement 
of Mammon." The author's ideas are elaborated 
tmder such headings as "Tainted Money," "Shall 
Dl-gotten Gains be Sought for Christian Purposes ? " 
'•Standard Oil and the Christian Missions," "The 
Ethics of Luxurious Expenditure," etc. Those who 
know Dr. Gladdeu's way of dealing with great ques- 
tions of social morality will not expect, on finishing 
this book, to be left in any doubt as to his meaning 
or his position, so lucid and trenchant is the style, 
so fearless and uncompromising the spirit of the 
man. His present message, however needed, is not 
a new one. For many years past, from his pulpit 
and church-tower study in the city of Columbus, his 
ringing words have sped through the land, and have 
fought a good fight. The second paper, " Tainted 
Money," as he quietly reminds his readers, was pub- 
lished' in -: The Outlook " in November, 1895. The 
one on " Rights and Duties " was a Commencement 
address delivered at the University of Michigan in 
1902. Another, on "The New Centurj' and the 
New Nation," bears date of 1900. Most of them 
his parishioners have, sooner or later, heard as ser- 
mons; and they can testify to the profound impres- 
sion made by these utterances, when moulded into 
oral form by a rich, persuasive voice, and weighted 



and driven home by the compulsion of thorough 
conviction. On February 11 Dr. Gladden was sev- 
enty- years yoimg ; but through many years or few he 
will not cease to bear spoken and written witness to 
the truth as he sees it and lives it. 



Authoroative ^^- ^^^<^ Ffrangcou Davies's trea- 
ehaptert on tise ou " The Singing of the Future " 

the vocal art. ( j^i^ L^ue Co.) is a direct and 
serious appeal to the English-speaking singer. The 
author argues that voice and the singing instinct — 
regarded from the physical point of view — are 
comparatively scarce; but that they are plentiful 
enough, if men gave greater heed to their psychic 
powers, to supply us with a larger number of lasting 
and suggestive types of singers than we now possess. 
The singing instinct is more general, and musical 
ability more latently plentiful, than many of us 
imagine, — as witness the behavior of an audience 
under the influence of a Reeves or a Joachim. And 
the germ being there, the step between appreciation 
and performance is not insurmountable. Given a 
fairly keen sense of pitch and rhythm, — in other 
words, modest musical intuition and cap>acity for 
work, — and singing becomes a mere matter of 
practical development, under the guidance of lin- 
guistic and imaginative thought. The strongest 
recommendation which Mr. Davies makes as the ideal 
of the singer is to strive for mastery over all tj'pes of 
human expression, with verisimilitude as the guiding 
principle. This implies that voice culture cannot be 
regarded as something apart from general culture : 
and the singer who woidd satisfy the highest demands 
of his profession should not confine his study within 
the bounds of the art to which he is primarily devoted. 
The artist should not beguile his audience with lovely 
and sensuous tone merely because the power happens 
to be within his natural gifts, — he should not ovei^ 
awe with physical prowess to the detriment of lin- 
guistic purity. One notices the touch of sincerity 
in Mr. Davies's work, and his chapters on " Tone," 
" Breathing," and " Style " may be profitably read 
by musicians as well as singers. 



Romance and ^he person of sensibiUty who could 
hutorv of an remain umnoved by the picturesque 
Italian valley, chama, the historic association, the 
artistic treasures, and the religious history of the 
Casentino. would doubtless be hard to find. But 
harder still to discover is the pen that could do 
justice to that poetic valley. Miss EUa Noyes, in 
her book called "The Casentino and its Story" 
(Dutton) is not lacking in the enthusiasm that all 
but the insensate must feel — an enthusiasm that 
has letl her to make most careful exploration, patient 
investigation, and loving exposition of the scenes and 
memories of the favored region. Unfortunately, this 
enthusiasm, and the luxury of indulging a very lively 
historic imagination, have betrayed the author into 
generalizations and theories that a scientific analysis 
of history will not always justify ; and her descrip- 
tions of scenery have an exuberance that detracts 



132 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 16, 



somewhat from their descriptive value. To cover in 
a vohime of 323 pages one of the most pictm-esque 
valleys of Italy, which is at the same time a great 
religious centre both 2)ast and present, the scene of a 
part of the exile of Italy's greatest poet as well as 
the former home of some of the most important 
families in Tuscan Middle Age history, is no light 
task. Perhaps we should not be surprised that the 
charcoal-burners, who are among the chief charms 
of the modern Casentino, are dismissed with only 
casual mention in two places in the text. In view 
of the difficulty of portraying the Casentino ade- 
quately in words, one is grateful to find the pen so 
artistically supplemented by the brush. Miss Dora 
Noyes's illustrations, twenty-five in color and twenty- 
four line, really are illustrations, for they give an 
accurate idea of the country ; but they are also much 
more than mere illustrations, for they have poetic 
feeling and imagination, and they add materially to 
the charm of the volume. 



Shall the earth ^ S^^at deal has been written in 
be kept still regard to man's duty toward the 
habitable f futm'e State and the citizens thereof. 

The rights of the child, the rights of the commu- 
nity, the rights of art, have all been discussed, with 
reference not only to the needs of the present gen- 
eration but of those to come. The factor' that is 
least considered is the earth itself, and our obliga- 
tions toward a proper husbanding of its resources. 
Nothing in law or economics can have a more impor- 
tant bearing on the welfare of posterity than mate- 
rial conditions, the soil, the sea, the mines, from 
which are drawn in various ways most of the power 
and subsistence necessary to the life of man. Yet 
the duty that one generation owes to another in the 
matter of the proper fertilization of agi"icultm*al 
lands, the preservation of forests, economical meth- 
ods of mining, careful regard for the life-habits of 
fishes and game, is seldom urged. This duty is the 
theme of Professor Nathaniel Shaler's latest book, 
which he calls " Man and the Earth " ( Fox, Duf- 
field & Co.). It is impossible to support theories as 
to future conditions of land and sea by statistics, 
because of the varying processes governing these 
conditions. But Professor Shaler, with his wide 
knowledge of natural sciences, is in the best possible 
position to draw conclusions from existing states. 
As a result, he has written an interesting little book, 
which will repay reading, and which, it is to be 
hoped, will result in directing attention to the vital 
subject of which it treats. 



The history of ^^^ history of our smallest common- 
our smallest wealth has been a stormy one, owing 
commonwealth, largely to the peculiar ideas of its 
founders and the circumstances of its founding. 
Rhode Island was the refuge of those New England 
men and women who were so extreme in their views 
and positions that they were driven out of the other 
colonies. It was largely a collection of idealists, 
cranks, and enthusiasts ; and the policy of the com- 



monwealth that grew out of the combination was 
necessarily individualistic. From the days of Roger 
Williams down to recent times, separatism has been 
a marked characteristic of the little state. The 
result of this has been a history full of internal strife 
and of opijosition to national tendencies. There was 
much that was selfish and mean in these struggles, 
so that the state was a thorn in the side of the states- 
men who were building up the nation. But Rhode 
Island history has also its glories, the gi'eatest being 
its consistent policy of religious toleration when the 
world was intolerant. This history has been written 
anew by Mr. Irving E. Richman for the "American 
Commonwealths " series (Houghton, Mifflin & Co. ). 
While the book is loaded with names unimportant to 
the general reader, still the main points of the his- 
tory are clearly brought out, and the volume is a 
compact and useful summary. 

" n Libro D'Oro of those whose 
Legends of the Names are Written in the Lamb's 

Italian saints. -n ■, e t 'i- it • i • • t i- 

xJook 01 Liiie IS the curious title oi 
a curious piece of translation from the Italian, done 
by Mrs. Francis Alexander. It consists of a mass 
of miracle stories and sacred legends written by the 
fathers of the Church and published in Italy in 
the sixteenth, seventeenth, and eighteenth centuries. 
The collection is made up from four som-ces : " Selec- 
tions from the Lives of the Holy Fathers, together 
with the Spiritual Field," dated Venice, 1623 ; 
" Selections from the Lives of the Saints and Beati 
of Tuscany," Florence, 1627 ; " Selections from the 
Wonders of God in His Saints," Bologna, 1593 ; 
and " Flowers of Sanctity," Venice, 1726. The 
extracts generally take the form of brief narratives, 
each having a title of its own. As a whole, the 
book will undoubtedly appeal to a limited and defi- 
nite class of readers, but the legends are picturesque 
enough to make a casual dipping into the treasures 
of the book decidedly pleasurable. The English 
rendering of the text is simple and graceful. Messrs. 
Little, Brown, & Co. publish the book in attractive 
outward form. 



:Notes. 



" The Life of Christ," by Dr. Alexander Stewart, is 
a new vohune in the " Temple Series of Bible Hand- 
books," published by the Messrs. Lippiucott. 

A monograph " On the Limits of Descriptive Writ- 
ing apropos of Lessmg's Laocoon," by Professor Frank 
Egbert Bryant, is a recent pamphlet publication of the 
Ann Arbor Press. 

In the " Englische Textbibliothek (Heidelberg : 
Winter), we have an edition of Longfellow's " Evan- 
geline," edited by Dr. Ernst Sieper. The editorial appa- 
ratus is very full, and includes a valuable " Geschichte 
der Englischen Hexameters." 

Four new volumes in the " English Classics " of 
Messrs. Longmans, Green, & Co. are the followuig r 
Irving's " Sketch Book," edited by Professor Brauder 
Matthews and Mr. Armour Caldwell ; Mrs. Gaskell's 
" Cranford," edited by Professor Franklin T. Baker ; 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



133 



Franklin's " Autobiography," edited by Professor 
William B. Cairns ; and " Select Poems of Robert 
BrowTiing," edited by Mr. Pereival Chubb. 

" The Place of Magic in the Intellectual History of 
Europe," by Dr. Lynn Thomdike, is an interesting 
monograph in the historical series of Columbia Uni- 
versity publications. 

" Milton's Ode on the Morning of Christ's Nativity," 
with an introduction by Dr. Glen Levin Swiggett, is a 
very pretty booklet published in a limited edition at 
the University Press of Sewanee, Tennessee. 

" A Check List of Mammals of the North American 
Continent, the West Indies, and the Neighboring Seas," 
prepared by Dr. Daniel Giraud Elliot, is a recent publi- 
cation of the Field Columbian Museum. It is a work 
of over seven hundred pages, recording upwards of 
thirteen himdred species. 

" Studies in Moro History, Law, and Religion," by 
Mr. Najeeb M. Saleeby, is a pamphlet publication of 
the L'nited States Ethnological Survey printed at Ma- 
nila. Another number of this series contains "The 
Naboloi Dialect," by Mr. Otto Scheerer, and " The 
Bataks of Palawan," by Mr. Edward Y. Miller. 

" Inaugural Addresses of the Presidents of the United 
States from Johnson to Roosevelt," edited by Mr. John 
Vance Cheney, is published by Messrs. R. R. Donnelley 
& Sons, Chicago, as the third volume of their " Lake- 
side Classics." The preceding volume, it will be re- 
membered, reprinted the inaugural addresses from 
Washington to Lincoln. 

Two new volumes in the Astronomical Series of 
L'niversitj- of Pennsylvania publications give us the 
results of two years' observation \*'ith the Zenith Tele- 
scope of the Flower Observatory, and the measure of 
1066 double and multiple stars. For the first-named 
series of observations Mr. Charles L. Doolittle is respon- 
sible; for the other, Mr. Eric Doolittle. 

Of the thi-ee papers included in the October " Uni- 
^-ersity Studies " of the University of Nebraska, the one 
that is of most interest to our readers is that in which 
Professor C. W. Wallace prints and discusses certain 
" Newly-Discovered Shakespeare Documents." The 
documents are three in number, and of a legal character. 
They were foimd by Professor Wallace in the archives 
of the Public Record Office. 

Tennyson's " In Memoriam," published in something 
like " Golden Treasurj- " garb by the Macmillau Co., is 
an edition " annotated by the author." This means, in 
the words of the present Lord Tennyson, that the 
" notes were left by my father partly in his own hand- 
Avriting, and partly dictated to me." Since there are 
some twenty-five pages of them, they are a valuable 
addition to our apparatus for the study of the poem, 
and will serve to decide many a disputed point. A 
lengthy introduction by the poet's son is also included, 
embodying the opinions of several of Tennyson's most 
famous contemporaries, and gi\-ing a fairly clear state- 
ment of his religious attitude. It will be evident from 
our description that this is a very precious little book. 

" The Musician's Library," published by the Oliver 
Ditson Co., grows apace. It now numbers a score of 
volumes, about eqiuiUy divided between compositions 
for voice and for piano. The latest of these vohunes 
are two containing " Songs and Airs by George Frideric 
Handel," edited by Mr. Ebenezer Prout. The first 
vohmie contains pieces for high voice, and the second 
pieces for low voice. The introductory matter is the 



same for both volumes, and consists of a carefully- 
written critical and biographical study, besides a chrono- 
logical index. There are eighty selections in all, forty 
for each volume. Six are from " Messiah," and five 
each from " Samson " and " Judas Maccabaeas." Vocal- 
ists will be most grateful for the operatic arias, which 
are far less accessible than the numbers representing 
the oratorios. 

A most interesting and important publishing enter- 
prise is announced by Messrs. E. P. Dutton & Co. in 
conjunction with Messrs. Dent of London. This is a 
series of reprints, under the general title of " Every- 
man's Library," of the great books in everj- department 
of literature, carefully edited, handsomely printed 
and boimd, and sold at the low price of fifty cents a 
volume. Mr. Ernest Rhys is general editor of the 
series, and critical introductions to the various volumes 
will be supplied by such writers as Augustine Birrell, 
Andrew Lang, Lord Avebury, A. C. Swinburne, G. K. 
Chesterton, Herbert Paul, Theodore Watts-Dunton, 
Richard Gamett, HUaire Belloc, and George Saints- 
bury. That the mechanical form of the volumes will 
be the best that modem methods of printing, paper- 
making, and binding can produce is assured by Mr. 
Dent's connection with the plan. The series is to be 
published in quarterly instalments of about fifty vol- 
umes each, the first of which will appear next month. 
We trust this undertaking will meet the ^^■ide popidar 
success that it is sure to deserve. 



List of Xeav Books. 

[2^ following list, containing 57 tides, includes books 
received by Thb Di.\l, since its last isstie.'\ 

BIOGKAPHY AND REMINISCENCES. 
Mary Queen of Scots : Her Environment and Tragedy. By 

T. F. Henderson. In 2 vols., illus. in photogravure, etc. 

large 8vo. gilt tops. Charles Scribner's Sons. S6. net. 
The Life of Queen Henrietta Maria. By I. A. Taylor. 

Second edition; in 2 vols.. Ulus. in photogravare, etc., large 

8vo. gilt tops. E. P. Dutton & Co. $7.50 net. 
Descartes : His Life and Times. By Elizabeth S. Haldane. 

Illos. in photogravure, etc. large Svo, gilt top, pp. 398. £. P. 

Dutton & Co. ^.50 net. 
Days of the Past: A Medley of Memories. By Alexander 

Innes Shand. Large Svo. gilt top. pp. 319. E. P. Dutton & 

Co. $3. net. 
Russell Wheeler Daveni>ort: Father of Rowing at Yale. 

Maker of Guns and Armor Plate. With photogra\-ure 

portrait, large Svo, gilt top, pp. 79. G. P. Putnam's Sons. 

$1.25 net. 
Chopin : As Revealed by Extracts from his Diary. By Count 

StanUas Tamowski; trans, from the Polish by Natalie 

Janotha ; edited by J. T. Tanqueray. Illus., 16mo, pp. 69. 

Charles Scribner's Sons. $1. net. 

HISTORY. 

A History of the Inquisition of Spain. By Henry Charles 
Lea. LL.D. Vol. I., large Svo, gilt top, pp. 620. Macmillan 
Co. $2.50 net. 

Ancient Records of Egypt : Historical Documents from the 
Earliest Times to the Persian Conquest. Collected, edited, 
and translated, with commentary, by James Henry Breasted, 
Ph.D. Vol. I., The First to the Seventeenth Dynasties. Large 
Svo. uncut, pp. 344. University of Chicago Press. $3. net. 

The Russian Court in. the Eighteenth Century. By Fitz- 
gerald MoUoy. In 2 vols., illus. in photogravure, etc large 
Svo. gilt tops. Charles Scribner's Sons. $6. net. 

England under the Normans and Angevins, 1066-1272. 
By H. W. C. Davis. Large Svo. gilt top, uncut, pp. 577. G. P. 
I*utnam's Sons. $3. net. 

A History of the United States. By Elroy McKendree 
Avery. Vol. H., illus. in color, etc, large Svo, gilt top, uncut, 
pp. 458. Burrows Bros. Co. 



134 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 16, 



American Political History, 1763-1876. By Alexander John- 
ston ; edited and supplemented by James Albert Woodburn. 
Part II., 1820-76. 8vo, pp. 598. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $2. net. 

QENEBAIi LITEBATUBE. 
The Development of the Feelingr for Nature in the Middle 

Ages and Modern Times. By Alfred Biese. 12nio, pp. 376. 

E. P. Button & Co. 12. net. 
The Building- of the City Beautiful. By Joaquin Miller. 

With photogravure frontispiece, 16mo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 243. 

Trenton: Albert Brandt. $1.50 net. 
The Miracles of Our Liady Saint Diary. Brought out of 

divers tongues and newly set forth in English by Evelyn 

Underhill. With photogravure frontispiece, 8vo, uncut, 

pp. 308. E. P. Button & Co. $2. net. 
H3ann Treasures. By Grace Morrison Everett. 12mo, gilt top, 

pp. 183. Jennings & Graham. $1.25. 

NEW EDITIONS OF STANDABD LITEBATUBE. 
Complete Works of Abraham Lincoln. Edited by John G. 

Nicolay and John Hay. New and enlarged edition. Vols. 

I. and II., with photogravure frontispieces, 8vo, gilt tops, 

uncut. New York: Francis D.Tandy Co. (Sold only in sets 

of 12 vols., by subscription.) 
The Poetical Works of Ijord Byron. Edited, with a Memoir, 

by Ernest Hartley Coleridge. With photogravure portrait, 

12mo, pp. 1048. Charles Scribner's Sons. $1.50 net. 
The Paerie Queene. By Edmund Spenser. In 2 vols., with 

photogravure frontispieces, 24mo, gilt tops. "Caxton Thin 

Paper Series." Charles Scribner's Sons. Leather, $2.50 net. 
In Memoriam. By Alfred Lord Tennyson. Annotated by the 

author. 16mo, uncut, pp. 265. Macmillan Co. $1. net. 
" Ground Arms 1" (" Die Waffen Nieder ! ") : A Romance of 

European War. By Baroness Bertha von Suttner; trans. 

from the German by Alice Asbury Abbott. Sixth edition ; 

with portrait. 12mo, pp. 313. A. C. McClurg & Co. $1.25. 
Axel and "Valborg: : An Historical Tragedy in Five Acts. 

Trans, from the Danish and German of Adam Oehlen- 

schlager by Frederick Strange KoUe. 12mo, gilt top, uncut, 

pp. 120. Grafton Press. 
Wordsworth's Guide to the Lakes. Fifth Edition (1835). 

Edited by Ernest de Selincourt. lUus., 16mo, gilt top, pp. 203. 

Oxford University Press. 90 cts. net. 

FICTION. 
The Great Refusal. By Maxwell Gray. 12mo, pp. 438. 

D. Appleton & Co. $1.50. 
The Eternal Spring-. By Neith Boyce. Illus., 12mo, uncut, 

pp. 403. Fox, DufHeld & Co. $1.50. 
The duickening-. By Francis Lynde. Illus., 12mo, pp. 407. 

Bobbs-Merrill Co. $1.50. 
The Lake. By George Moore. 12mo, pp. 309. D. Appleton & 

Co. $1.50. 
The One Who Saw. By Headon Hill. Illus., 12mo, pp. 379. 

New York : B. W. Dodge & Co. $1.50. 
Hicky. By Olin L. Lyman. 12mo, pp. 241. Richard G. Badger. 

$1.25. 

THEOLOGY AND BELIGION. 

The Finality of the Christian Beligion. By George Burman 

Foster. Large 8vo, pp. 518. University of Chicago Press. 

$4. net. 
The History of Early Christian Literature : The Writings 

of the New Testament. By Baron Hermann von Soden, D.D. ; 

trans, by Rev. J. R. Wilkinson, M. A. ; edited by Rev. W. D. 

Morrison, LL.D. 12mo, pp. 476. " Crown Theological 

Library." G. P. Putnam's Sons. $1.50. 
The Beligion of Christ in the Twentieth Century. 12mo, 

pp. 197. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $1.50. 
The Gospel in the Gospels. By William Porcher Du Bose, 

M.A. 12mo, pp. 289. Longmans, Green & Co. $1.50. 
Sermon Briefis. By Henry Ward Beecher ; transcribed from the 

author's manuscript notes of unpublished discourses, and 

edited by John R. Howard and Truman J. EUinwood. 8vo, 

pp. 263. Pilgrim Press. 
The Religion of Numa, and Other Essays on the Religion of 

Ancient Rome. By Jesse Benedict Carter. 12mo, uncut, 

pp. 189. Macmillan Co, $1. net. 
The Ecclesiastical Edicts of the Theodosian Code. By 

William K. Boyd, Ph.D. Large 8vo, uncut, pp. 122. " Colimi- 

bia University Publications." Macmillan Co. Paper. 
The Child in the Church. Edited by Horatio N. Ogden, A.M. 

16mo, pp. 55. Jennings & Graham. 25 cts. net. 



The Best Address Ever Hade : An Exposition of the Fif- 
teenth Chapter of Luke. By Rev. Rhys R. Lloyd, M.A. 
24mo, pp. 47. Chicago : Hays-Cushman Co. 25 cts. 

ART AND MUSIC. 

Etchings of Charles Meryon. Text by Hugh Stokes. Illus., 
4to. " The Master Etchers." Charles Scribner's Sons. 
$2.50 net. 

Old Pewter. By Malcolm Bell. Illus., 8vo, gilt top, pp. 186. 
" Newnes' Library of the Applied Arts." Charles Scribner's 
Sons. $2.50 net. 

Henry Moore, R.A. By Frank Maclean. Illus. in photo- 
gravure, etc., 12mo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 215. Charles Scrib- 
ner's Sons. $1.25 net. 

The Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood. Text by J. Ernest 
Phythian. Illus. in photogravure, etc., large 8vo, pp. 76. 
" Newnes' Art Library." Frederick Wame & Co. $1.25. 

The Deeper Sources of the Beauty and Expression of 
Music. By Joseph Goddard. 16mo, pp. 119. Charles Scrib- 
ner's Sons. $1.25 net. 

James McNeill Whistler. By H. W. Singer. Illus., 18mo, 
gilt top, pp. 83. " Langham Monographs." Charles Scrib- 
ner's Sons. Leather, $1. net. 

Hans Holbein the Younger : A Critical Monograph. By 
Ford Madox Huefler. Illus., 24mo, gilt top, pp. 178. " Popular 
Library of Art." E. P. Dutton & Co. 75 cts. net. 

REFERENCE. 
Who's Who in America, 1906-7. Edited by John W. Leonard. 

8vo, pp. 2080. Chicago : A. N. Marquis & Co. $3.50. 
Who's Who, 1906: An Annual Biographical Dictionary. 

16mo, pp. 1878. Macmillan Co. $2. net. 

EDUCATION. 

First Science Book : Physics and Chemistry. By Lothrop D. 

Higgins, Ph.B. lUus., 16mo, pp. 237. Ginn & Co. 65 cts. 
The Choral Song Book. Edited and arranged by William M. 

Lawrence and Frederick H. Pease. 8vo, pp. 225. Rand, 

McNally & Co. 50 cts. 
Berry's Writing Books. In 4 parts, illus. in color, etc., 

oblong 12mo. Chicago : B. D. Berry & Co. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 
Congress of Arts and Science, Universal Exposition, St. 

Louis, 1904. Edited by Howard J. Rogers, A.M. Vol. I., large 

8vo. pp. 627. Houghton, Mifflin & Co. $2.50 net. 
The Central Tian-Shan Mountains, 1902-3. By Dr. Gottfried 

Merzbacher. Illus., large 8vo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 285. E. P. 

Dutton & Co. $3.50 net. 
The Age of the Earth, and Other Geological Studies. By 

W. J. Sollas. Illus., large 8vo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 328. E. P. 

Dutton & Co. $3. net. 
Health and the Inner Life. By Horatio W. Dresser. 12mo, 

gilt top, pp. 255. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $1.35 net. 
The Physical Nature of the Child, and How to Study It. 

By Stuart H. Rowe, Ph.D. 12mo, pp. 211. Macmillan Co. 

90 cts. net. 
Great-Grandma's Looking-Glass. By Blanche Nevin ; illus. 

by Annis Dunbar Jenkins. Large 8vo. Robert Grier Cooke. 

Paper. 
Hints and Helps for Young Gardeners. By H. D. Hemen- 

way. Illus., large 8vo, pp.59. Hartford: Published by the 

author. Paper 35 cts. 



STORY-WRITERS, Biographers, Historians, Poets — Do 

-^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ you desire the honest criticism of your 
book, or its skilled revision and correction, or advice as to publication ? 
Such work, said George William Curtis, is " done as it should be by The 
Easy Chair's friend and fellow laborer in letters, Dr. Titus M. Coan. " 
Terms by agreement. Send for circular D, or forward your book or MS. 
to the New York Bureau of Revision, 70 Fifth Ave., New York. 



Authors' 
.gency 

Mention The Dial, R 



Fifteenth Year. Candid, suggestive 
Criticism, literary and technical Re- 
vision, Advice, Disposal. MSS. of all 
kinds. Instruction. References: 
Mrs. Burton Harrison, W. D. Howells, 
Mrs. Julia Ward Howe, Thomas 
Nelson Page, Mrs. Mary E. Wilkins 
Freeman, and others. Send stamp 
for Booklet to WM. A. DRESSER, 
. 7, 400 Broadway, Cambridge, Mass. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



135 



THREE FAST 

California Trains 

daily via the Chicago, Union Pacific & 
North-Western Line, over the only double 
track railway between Chicago and the 
Missouri River. 

The Overland Limited 

Fast through electric-lighted train to 
San Francisco and Portland. Most 
luxurious train in the world. Less than 
three days en route. 

Los Angeles Limited 

Electric-lighted through train arriving 
at Los Angeles afternoon of the third 
day, via the new Salt Lake Route. 
Entire new equipment. Drawing-Room 
and Tourist bleeping cars, Composite- 
Observation cars. Dining cars. 

The China & Japan FastMall 

To San Francisco, Los Angeles and 
Portland without change. Pullman 

Drawing-Room and Tourist 
Sleeping cars. Dining cars. 

For booklets, maps, schedules' 
rates, list of hotels, aod descrip- 
tion of limited trains apply at 

TICKET OFFICES: 
Z 1 £ Clark St. and Walla SI. Sla. 

(Tel. Central 721.) 




IhsSTUDEBAKER 

Stint Sitifi 15ttimns 

Michigan Boulevard, between Congress and 
Van Buren Streets, Chicago. 



Beginning Feb. 19 — Second and Last Week of 

The Paul Orleneff 
Russian Players 



WILLIAM R.JENKINS 

851 and 853 Sixth Avenue (cor. 48th Street) New York 

yo branch ttoret 



FRENCH 

and other 
foreign 

BOOKS 



READ CUB 

ROMANS CHOISIS SERIES 

26 TitleB. Paper 60c., cloth 85c. vol. 

CONTES CHOISIS SERIES 

24 Titles. Paper 25c. , cloth 40c. toI. 
Masterpieces, pure, by well-known authors. 
Read extenslTely by classes ; notes in English. 
List, also catalogue o{ all publications and 
imported books, on application. 



STUDY AND PRACTICE OF FRENCH in 4 Parts 

L. C. BoHAin, Author and Pub., 1930 Chestnut St., Philadelphia, Pa. 

Well-graded series for Preparatory Schools and Colleges. No time 
wasted in superficial or mechanical work. French Text : Numerous 
exercises in conversation, translation, composition. Parti. (60cts.): 
Primary grade; thorough drill in Pronunciation. Pari II. (90 cts.): 
Intermediate grade ; Essentials of Grammar ; 4th edition, revised, with 
Vocabulary : most carefully graded. Pari III. (81.00): Composition, 
Idioms, Syntax ; meets requirements for admission to college. 

Part IV. (35 cts.): Sandbook o/ Pronunciation for advanced grade; 
concise and comprehensive. Sent to teachers for examination, tvilh a 
view to introduction. 



VALUABLE COLLECTION 

BOOKS AT AUCTION 

Monday and Tuesday, Feb. 26 and 27 

We sell a well and carefully selected 

PRIVATE LIBRARY 

AND A DEALERS CATALOGUE 
OVER 600 NUMBERS 

Catalogues ready ; can be had on application. 



Williams, Barker & Severn Co. 

187 WABASH AVENUE, CHICAQO 

ROOICS ^^^ OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS SUPPLIED. 

'-'^-'^-' **•*-'• no matter on what subject. Write us. We can get 
you any book ever published. Please state wants. Catalogue free. 
BAKEB'S GREAT BOOK-SHOP, 14-16 Bright St., BiBxiHoaui, Ehs. 

1^^ An unutual book, tehich from iii unique valtie has von it* way 
to immediate recognition. 

NEW TABLES OF STONE 

And other Essays. By HENRY M. SIMMONS. Cloth, gilt top, 328 
pages, $1.50 net, postage 12c. [Descriptive circular sent on request.] 

" If any more desirable book for general reading has been issued this 
year, it has not come to the reviewer's notice." — Botton Trameript. 

" It belongs with Fiske's ' Destiny of Man ' and ' Idea of Ood,' and 
presents certain inspiring aspects of the evolutionary philosophy in a 
stronger and profounder way than those essays." — Edwik D. Mead. 
JAMES H. WEST CO. PUBLISHERS BOSTON 



THE COMPLETE WRITINGS OF 

ALFRED DE MUSSET 

Illustrated, large paper edition, in 
Ten Volumes. 
"A writer who has endowed our language with admirable 
poetry, the brother of Lamartine, of Hugo, and of Byron, a 
novelist rivaling Prevost, Balzac, and George Sand; a dramatist 
who, in one act, has made the Comedie Fran^aise earn more 
money than we give it in six months ; one of those thinkers 
who has never once sacrificed the dignity of art to the ambitions 
of fortune and position." ALEXANDRE DUMAa 

BOOKLET MAILED ON APPLICATION 

EDWIN C. HILL COMPANY 

160 FIFTH AVENUE NEW YORK CITY 



Importing Notice 

AX7E beg to announce that we have greatly extended 
' ' our facilities for the importation of English 
books, so that we now are equipped to fill orders of 
this sort with the greatest efficiency and intelligence. 
Promptness, good service, and low prices will rule 
in this department, as they do in all our business. 



THE BAKER & TAYLOR CO., Wholesale Booksellers 
33-37 East 17th St.. Union Sq. North, New York 



136 



THE DIAL 



[Feb. 16, 1906. 



The New star Chamber 

And Other Essays 

By EDGAR LEE MASTERS 

CONTENTS 
The New Star Chamber; Theodore Roosevelt; John 
Marshall; Thomas Jefferson; Alexander Hamilton; 
Implied Powers and Imperialism; Elect the Federal 
Judges; Despotism Revamped; The Philippine Con- 
quest; The New Policy; Political Tendencies; Mr. 
Bryan's Campaigrns ; Observations on Democracy. 

12mo, hoards, 213 pages. 
Price, $1.00, postpaid. 

A collection of forcibly written essays. . . . Much sound doc- 
trine upon imperialism. — The Dial. 
Food for thought on subjects imperfectly understood. . . . 

— Jioston Transcrij)/. 
Nothing has been published in years that goes so far in so 
little space. — Chicaoo Daily Newx. 

It is a book which thoughtful Americans ought to read. 

— Johnstotrn Democrat. 
Open-minded readers wiU find much in it to awaken thought. 

— Chicatjo Record-Herald . 



Book Catalogue Mnt free on request; aUo 
specimen copies of THE PUBLIC : A Journal 
of Fundamental Democracy and a Weekly 
Karrative of History in the Making, Loms 
F. Post, Editor. Subscription, $1.00 yearly. 



THE PUBLIC PUBLISHING CO. 

First National Banic Building, Chicago 



THE BOOKS 
OF ALL PUBLISHERS 

are carried in our stock, 
which is larger and more 
general than that of any 
other house in the country. 

LIBRARY ORDERS 

given prompt and intelligent 
"service. Our large stock 
and extensive library expe- 
rience enables us to give 
valuable aid and advice to 
libraries and librarians. 

CATALOGUE CARDS and 
CARD CABINETS 

We carry a special line and 
will be glad to furnish a 
price list. 

LIBRARY DEPARTMENT 

A. C. McC LU RG & CO. 

CHICAGO 



American Standard 

Revised Bible 




The patiently illuminated Bibles of the mediaeval 
monks doubtless served the needs of their times, and 
the "King James" Version has served our ancestors 
for 300 years. But, with the revolutionary changes 
in our language in the past centuries, the need of 

The Bible in Plain English 

has grown more and more pressing, and now, after 
29 years' work by the authorized British and 
American Revisers, the one really thorough and 
authentic translation of the Scriptures into English 
has been produced in the American Standard 
Revised Version. 

It is a translation of the original Scriptures, with 
obsolete words and phrases replaced by plain, 
modem English all can understand. It is authorized 
by the American Committee of Revision, used in 
churches of all denominations, and endorsed by min- 
isters, schools, colleges and prominent laymen alike. 

Write for Our 40 -page Boole, 
''The Story of tlie Revised Bible" 

SENT FREE, which tells why the 
Bible was revised, how it was ac- 
complished, and shows sample 
pages, bindings, etc., of the many 
styles issued. Your name on a postal 
card, with the name of your 
bookseller, will get you this book. 
. All booksellers have in stock, 
or can quickly get from us, any style 
of the American Standard Revised 
Bible you order. Prices 35c.. to 
S18.00, according to size and bind- 
ing. See that you get the Ameri- 
can Standard Edition. Look for 
the Nelson imprint and the endorse- 
ment of the American Revision 
Committee on the back of the title 
page. E^="\Ve sell direct where 
booksellers will not supply. 



%e§mrj 




THOMAS NELSON & SONS 

41 V East 18th Street 
NEW YORK 



THE DIAL PRESS, FINE ARTS BUHDINO, CHICAGO 



\<V 



THE DIAL 

Jl SEMI-MONTHLY JOURNAL OF 

Jiltrarg Crilixism, Discussion, anb Jirformation. 

Edited by 1 Volume XL, C^VJJf^ A Clf\ HX A 'RP'W 1 1 QftA ^^ *^* <* «>PV- / ^'•'^ Akts Bcildixg 

FRANCIS F. BROWNE / No. 1,15. V^rLH^AUV^, iSlil_RVyn 1, J.»UO. l^.ayear. I 203 Michigan Blvd. 



MARCH PUBLICATIONS 



LINCOLN: MASTER OF MEN 

By ALONZO ROTHSCHILD 
'T^HIS keen and brilliant study of I^coln's character differs from the work of his other biogfraphers by aiming 
* to concentrate the reader's attention on the one element in his personality which continnally grows in significance 
as time goes by. This is his mastery over different types of men, as well as over himself. The eig^t chapters take 
up successively his physical, intellectnal. and early political prowess ; and his relations with Douglas, Seward, Chase, 
Stanton, Fremont, and McClellan. The book is intended for popular reading, but it will be valuable for the student 
on account of its notes and bibliography, which are probably the fullest and most complete yet published. Each 
chapter is prefaced by a portrait of the character under di«nusi<Mi. Large crown 8vo, $3.00 net. Postage extra. 

THE COLLEGE MAN AND THE COLLEGE WOMAN 

By William DbWitt Hyde 
Clear-sighted essays by the President of Bowdoin College on American coll^pe methods and ideals, bearing directly 
on the work of those who are interested in modem education. $1.50 net. Postage extra. 

THE CLAMMER THE EVASION 

By William J. Hopkins By EuGsiaA Bbooks FBOTHtHGHAM 

A delicate, half -whimsical love story of a A powerful portrayal of society life to-day, fuD of keen feeling and dra- 
witty recluse who lives by the sea. $1.25. matic incident. By the aothor of '' The Turn of die Road." $1.50. 

AMERICAN LITERARY MASTERS 

By Leox H. Vrscz>-T 
Mr. Vmoent writes in an easy, condensed style of the life, the character, and the woilcs of nineteen representatiTe 
American authors, covering the period from 1809 to 1860. $2.00 net. Postage extn. 

BETWEEN TWO xMASTERS THE SUBCONSCIOUS 

By Gamaliel Bradford, Jr. By Joseph Jastrow 
A vivid and dramatic novel dealing with the twen- A distinctive contribution to an interesting phase of de- 
tieth century struggle between God and Mammon. scriptive psychology, emphasizing the wide range of sub- 
It presents one phase of the " tainted money " ques- conscious activities in the normal every-day life, and also 
tion, which is so much in the akt jnat now. -S^L.^O. taking up abnormal cases. 

WAR GOVERNMENT, FEDERAL AND STATE 

By William B. Weeden 
A study of the Civil War period, showing how war government, federal and state, accomplished most potent and 
far-reaching results, in the readjustment of the relations between states and the nation, and between the people and 
the governing body. The author has chosen as typical states Massachusetts, New York, Pennsylvania, and TnHianji- 



HOUGHTON, MIFFLIN & COMPANY, BOSTON AND NEW YORK 



138 



THE DIAL 



[March 1, 



THE "MAGAZINE PROBLEM" SOLVED 



YEARLY 

SUBSCRIPTION 

FIFTY 

CENTS 



G)h2Ct s ill 

f^ Guide 2ciiD Index 
■Co tlxc Gm-TenlTs of tlic 
Current* 'Pei'iodica.ls 



'Published CDonrhly hy 
Chic&cio 



SINGLE 
COPIES 

FIVE 
CENTS 



^It is the purpose of this little publication to make the mass of current 
magazine literature accessible to the every-day reader, — to show just 
what the leading periodicals contain and to indicate the general character 
and scope of the principal articles. It is not a library index, — there 
are no confusing abbreviations or cross-references. The arrangement is 
of the simplest and most convenient sort, to meet the needs of the average 
busy reader. Each issue presents a bird's-eye view of the magazines of 
the month, that will give one in five minutes the information hitherto to 
be obtained only by long and tedious examination of contents-pages on 
the news-stands. 



^PP^I A I For a limited period, "WHAT 'S IN THE MAGAZINES" 

^r twI/^L vvill be sent to any reader of this advertisement for one 

^^ CTErCr D yc'ii' ^^ receipt of 25 cents in stamps or currency — just 

v^ I r EL im half the regular price. Specimen copy free on request. 



THE DIAL COMPANY, Publishers, Fine Arts Building, CHICAGO 



1906.] THE DIAL, 189 

THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO PRESS 

NEW BOOKS 



The Finality of the Christian ReHgion george b. foster 

In a course of lectures delivered at Hanard in 1893 and 1894, Professor Foster outlined an 
argument for the absolute value of Christianity which so impressed his hearers that he was 
urged to put it in permanent form. This he has at length done in ♦•The Finality of the 
Christian Religion," a work which involves a destructive criticism of authority religion and a 
constructive treatment of Christianity as an inevitable outgrowth of human nature. The work 
has been awaited with great impatience. 530 pp.; net $4.00 ; postpaid $4.22. 

Ancient Records of Egypt james h. breasted 

A full and reliable source-book of Egyptian history is at last to appear. After ten years of 
labor, Professor Breasted offers to Egyptologists and students of history a corpus of Egyptian 
inscriptions on a scale not previously attempted, and with a degree of accuracy never before 
attained. The series is one of three now in preparation, the others being by Robert F. 
Harper (Assyria and Babylonia) and by the late William R. Harper (Palestine, Phoenicia, 
and Syria). The entire collection, when completed, will be a monumental contribution to the 
history of the East. 4 vols., 8vo. ; 390, 450, 300, 560 pp. Advance price $3.00 net per volume. 
Volume I. now ready. Postage 20 cents extra. 

General Sociology albion w. small 

Professor SmalPs main proposition is that the traditional sciences relating to the spiritual sides 
of life are sterile, unless they are carried out to a point at which they blend in one system of 
knowledge The book is an exposition of the development of social theory from Spencer to 
Ratzenhofer, and a plea for the completion of the general structure of social science. 753 pp.; 
8vo, cloth; net $4.00; postpaid S4. 23. 

A Decade of Civic Development charles zueblin 

The author gives a concbe and spirited account of certain definite measures — political, economic, 
social, and artistic — for the betterment of American cities. Professor Zueblin was formerly 
president of the American League for Civic Improvement. He is the author of American 
Municipal Progress and other volumes. 200 pp.; i2mo, cloth; net Si. 25 ; postpaid $1.35. 

Russia and Its Crisis paul milyoukov 

An authoritative account of the whole situation in Russia by a man who, as scholar and poli- 
tician, has had unsurpassed opportuniues for observation. The book deals with the present crisis 
as the logical result of the entire history of Russia. It is thus a work of permanent importance, 
and is already being recognized as a standard. 602 pp.; 8vo, cloth; net $3.00; postpaid $3.20. 

Christian Belief Interpreted by Christian Experience c. hall 

A series of lectures delivered In India, Ceylon, and China under the Barrows Lectureship. 
An attempt is made to point out the common foundation underlying all religions and to 
present the claims of Christianity to be regarded as the ultimate religion. The work has 
aroused enthusiastic admiration by its breadth of view. Its nobility of tone, and the chaste 
beauty of its style. 300 pp.; 8vo, cloth ; net $1.50 ; postpaid $1.66. 

ADDRESS, DEPT. 20 

THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO PRESS 

CHICAGO AND NEW YORK 



140 THE DIAL [March 1,190 



Macmillan Publications and Announcements 



Mr. Eden Phillpotts' new novel The Portreeve 

By the author of " The Secret Woman," •' Children of the Mist," etc. Just ready. Cloth, 81.50. 

"Again and again it rises above anything Eden Phillpotts has yet done."— iV«i0 York Mail. 

" Mr. Phillpotts has never shown himself to be a better story teller than he is in these pages." — New York Tribune. 

Professor C. T. Winchester's Life of John Wesley 

By the Professor of English Literature in Wesieyan University. 

Jutt ready. Illustrated wUh Portraits, eloth, 81.60 net {postage 16 cts.) 
An interesting picture of a striking personality, energetic, scholarly, alive to all moral, social and political questions, and for 
some thirty years probably exerting a greater influence than any other man in England ; a vivid truthful portrait as appealing 
to the general reader as to the student of religion. 

Mr. James Loeb's translation from the French of 

Euripides and the Spirit of his Dramas 

By PAUL DECHARMB, Professor of Greek Poetry in the Faculty des Lettres at Paris. 

A study of this most modem of ancient poets, noteworthy for its breadth of view, power of close analysis, and vigorous 

presentation. Just ready. Cloth, 8vo, 392 pages, with four illustrative plates, 83.00 net {poslaye 15 els.) 

Vol. I. of Dr. HENRY C. LEA'S great ivork 

A History of the Inquisition of Spain robe complete in /our volumes. 

" The subject is an interesting one, and we know of no other English book which throws so much light upon it. . . . It should 
be understood that this book is the outcome of independent, first-hand investigation of the materials stored in the immense 
Spanish Archives."— M. W. H. in The Sunday Sun, New York. 

Volume I., just ready, is in 620 8vo pages. Cloth, price 82.50 net {postage 22 cts.) 

Mr. Winston Churchill's Life of Lord Randolph Churchill 

" To the personal and political history of the last generation in the United Kingdom and the British Empire these handsome 
volumes are an indispensable contribution." — New York Tribune. 

" Here is a book which is certainly among the two or three most exciting political biographies in the language." — London 
Times' Literary Supplement. In two octavo volumes, with portraits, etc., 89.00 net. 

Salve Venetia! Gleanings from History second edition 

By Mr. F. MARION CRAWFORD. Illustrated by JOSEPH PENNELL. 

" It creates the atmosphere and ineffable charm of Venice better than any book I have ever read." — E. L. Shtman, Chicago 

Record-Herald. Two volumes in a box, crown 8vo, 85.00 net. Carriage extra. 

Pre-Raphaelitism and the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood 

By WILLIAM HOLMAN HUNT, author of "The Life of Williamson," etc. 

" At last there is set before the world the book which has been none too patiently waited for for many years past, and an 
absorbing, interesting, and valuable book it is, fluently and admirably written and on its lighter side vastly entertaining." 
— Daily Graphic, London. Two volumes. Richly illustrated. 810.00 net. Carriage extra. 

Mr. B. L. Putnam-Weale's The Re-Shaping of the Far East 

By the author of " Manchu and Muscovite." 

"It is emphatically a work without which the library of the student of the Far Eastern question will be incomplete." — Daily 
Telegraph, London. Illustrated from fine photographs. Two volumes. 86.00 net. 

Mr. Henry George, Jr.'s The Menace of Privilege 

A Study of the Dangebs to the Republic from the Existence of a Favored Class 
" Mr. George has given us a book of first rate interest and importance. It is written forcefully and brilliantly ... as a picture 
of present-day conditions it is a remarkable piece of description and analysis. . . . Mr. Oeorge, in a word, is neither a Socialist 
nor an Anarchist, but a true Je&ersonian Republican, thoroughly believing in the rightfulness of both private property and 
public property, and, above all, in individual enterprise."— Professor Fbanklin Giodinos, of Columbia University, in The 
New York Times Saturday Reviexo. Cloth, 81.50 net; postage 13 cts. 

Mrs. Saint Maur's A Self-Supporting Home 

" Is really valuable by reason of definite practical information covering a wide range of topics." — The Nation. 
" For people who would like to do just as the author and her family did, here is the book of books. Shaking from their feet the 
duet of a ^25-a-month city flat, they went forth into the country, to live a new and more healthful life and incidentally to make 
it pay. . . . Just how it was done, what it cost and how well it paid is told step by ttep."— Country Life in America. 

Illustrated, cloth, 81.75 net. 

Mr. John Spargo's The Bitter Cry of the Children 

With an Introduction by Robert Hunter, author of "Poverty." 
" The most careful and searching examination ever published of the effects of poverty upon children, by a trained social inves- 
tigator of wide experience. Finally, Mr. Spargo writes of remedial measures, and endeavors to outline a constructive policy." 

Cloth, xvii. -ir 357 pages, with 32 full-page illustrations, 81.50 net {postage 13 cts.) 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY, PUBLISHERS, 64-66 FIFTH AVE., NEW YORK 



THE DIAL 

m Zemi^fELani^l^ Journal of ILitrrarg Criticism, Sisnission, ani Jtiformatton. 



THS DIAL (founded in 1880) U publUhfd on the 1st and leGi, 
of each month. Terms of Scbsckiption, t^.ayear in advance, 
pottage prepaid in the United States, Canada, and Mexico; 
m other countries comprised in the Postal Union, SO cents a 
year for extra postage must be added. Keicittajnces should 
be by check, or by express or postal order, payable to THE 
VIAL COMPAXY. Unless otherwise ordered, subscriptions 
will begin with the current number. When no direct request 
to discontinue at expiration of subscription is received, it is 
assumed that a continuance of the subscription is desired- 
AsvERTisiKG Rates /uT-nuTi^d on application. All communi- 
eaiion* should be addressed to 

THE DIAL, Fine Arts Building, Chieago. 



KN T KH BD AT THE CHICAGO POSTOFFICE AS SEOOKT>-CI.ASS KATTKK 
BY THE DIAL COSCPAXY, Pl'BUSHEBS. 



No. JUS. 



MARCH 1, 1906. 



Vol. XL. 



Contests. 

PASS 

THE NOVEL AT THE BAR 141 

COMMUNICATION 143 

Late Discnasions of the War of 1812. ¥.B.. Costello. 

THE REAL AND THE IDEAL WHTTMAN. Percy 

F. Bicknell 144 

MAIN CLTIRENTS IN SOCIOLOGICAL THEORY. 

Frank W. Blackmar 146 

SHAKESPEAREAN TABLE-TALK. Edward E. 

Hale, Jr 148 

ALABAMA IN WAR-TIME AND AFTER. Janus 

Wilford Garner 150 

PRECEPTS FOR THE YOL'NG. AND REFLEC- 
TIONS FOR THE OLD. T. D. A. CockereU 151 

RECENT FICTION. William Morton Payne . . .153 
Merejkowski's Peter and Alexis. — Sienkiewicz's 
On the Field of Glory. — Gasiorowski's Napoleon's 
Love Story. — Crockett's The Scarlet Ribband. — 
Oppenheim's A Maker of History. — Legge's The 
Ford. — Mr. and Mrs. Williamson's My Friend the 
ChaufFeor. — Maxwell's Vivian. — " Maxwell Gray's " 
The Great Refusal. — Tarkington's The Conquest 
of Canaan. — Nicholson's The House of a Thousand 
C>andles. — Hough's Heart's Desire. — Dix's The 
Fair Maid of Graystones. — Ellis's Barbara Wins- 
low, Rebel. — Gla«^w's The Wheel of Life. 

BRIEFS ON NEW BOOKS 156 

" Lone mother of dead empires." — The foremost 
English thinker from Bacon to Hume. — Literary 
Germany in the early 19th century. — Louisiana as 
an American commonwealth. — A good popular in- 
troduction to the art of Giotto. — English life and 
ways in Jane Austen's time. — More of ilr. Birrell's 
essays. — Improving the workingman's surround- 
ings. — A dictionary of famous Americans. — Some 
American women of a by-gone day. 

BRIEFER MENTION 160 

NOTES 161 

TOPICS IN UEADING PERIODICALS .... 161 

LEST OF NEW BOOKS 162 



THE NOVE L AT THE BAR. 

Mr. Richard Bagot, an English novelist of 
conscientious industry and creditable perform- 
ance, has made the February " Nineteenth Cen- 
tury ' the vehicle of certain reflections upon the 
present condition of literary criticism as it affects 
the \*Titer of fiction. He finds that condition to 
be extremely unsatisfactory, and makes tenta- 
tive suggestion of a corrective for its obvious 
shortcomings. Since the conditions he describes 
obtain quite as noticeably on this side of the 
water as on the other, his article shoidd prove 
equally interesting to both American and En- 
glish readers. 

He calls attention, to b^in with, to the con- 
tradictory character of the reviewing of current 
fiction. It is quite common for a novel to run 
the whole gamut of criticism from highest praise 
to severest censure, when in all probability the 
book is just an ordinary ephemeral production, 
deserving of neither extreme, but simply calling 
for a few words of classification and illustrative 
comment. Sometimes, as in a case cited from 
his own recent experience, the novelist has the 
malicious satisfaction of finding both kinds of 
estimates in different issues of the same journal. 
Thus, even if he pins his faith to some particular 
organ of literary opinion, his confidence is liable 
to be shaken by the rudest of shocks. And in 
any case, ''the perplexed novelist is liable to 
read in one leading organ that he has WTitten 
a work which places him in the front rank of 
living wTiters of fiction, and in another that he 
is ignorant of the very rudiments of the art of 
novel-writing." It is a hard problem. The nov- 
elist himself may lay to his soul the flattering 
unction of the laudatory judgment, although he 
will hardly do so without some misgi\Tngs, but 
the reader in search of light will not know what 
to think. 

Another very evident defect in the reviewing 
of fiction is that the criticism so often comes 
from persons having no familiarity with the 
subject-matter of the work criticised. " A novel 
dealing, we will say, with foreign life is reviewed 
perhaps by a critic who has no knowledge of 
the people and the country in which the scene 



142 



THE DIAL 



[March 1, 



of the book in question is laid. How, it may be 
asked, is such a critic to be a sound and reliable 
guide either to author or public ? " How, indeed ! 
And to what confusion worse confounded are 
we led when a novelist describes some phase of 
life with which he lias himself no intimate ac- 
quaintance, and his work is then reviewed by a 
critic whose knowledge of the subject is even 
more superficial ! The " society " novel offers the 
most obvious example of this condition of things. 
Some portrayal of smart life is described by the 
reviewers as a brilliant social satire or as a new 
"Vanity Fair," and the writers of such books 
" are supposed by the outside public to know 
intimately that society of which they write with 
such assurance." " But how many critics are 
there," asks Mr. Bagot, " who can boldly tell the 
distinguished author that he, or she, has made 
well-bred people say, do, and think things en- 
tirely foreign to their nature and caste tradi- 
tions?" 

That such defects as have above been indi- 
cated, and many others as glaring, characterize 
most current criticism of fiction, is a fact too 
apparent to need demonstration. And the rea- 
sons are equally apparent. To make a truly 
intelligent estimate of even a novel requires 
ability of a sort so rare and valuable as to be at 
the command of very few newspapers or other 
periodicals, it also demands an amount of space 
that cannot possibly be devoted to any single 
book of the class that numbers its thousands 
yearly. The problem set the average reviewer 
of the average novel is simply this : What is 
the most profitable employment I may make of 
the two hours and the two hundred words which 
are all I can give to this book ? A personal im- 
pression, a bit of description or classification, an 
indication of some salient feature, and a word or 
two about the workmanship are all that may be 
attempted imder the narrow conditions imposed. 
Reviewing done subject to those limitations wiU 
have weight in proportion to the ability and 
knowledge of the reviewer — and the brief para- 
graph may often be surprisingly weighty — but 
of course it will be anything but adequate to the 
claims of any book that really calls for serious 
consideration. 

Mr. Bagot, taking his cue from French prac- 
tices, from the positive fact of French official 
criticism and the negative fact that the French 
press does not, as a rule, attempt to review the 
whole output of current fiction, ventures a sug- 
gestion which, while it offers great difficulties 
on the practical side, is at least interesting and 
worthy of consideration. " What if the entire 



press," he asks, " should agree to ignore all 
works of fiction sent in for review which did not 
bring with them to the editorial offices a guar- 
antee that they liad duly passed an initial stage 
of examination, and had been declared worthy of 
the notice of the journalistic critic ? And what 
if the circvdating libraries declined to subscribe 
to any but works of fiction thus ImUmarked? 
It might, I think, reasonably be supposed that 
some such purifying process as this would tend 
considerably to reduce the flood of undesirable 
matter ; that it woidd diminish the work of the 
reviewer ; and that the art of the novelist and 
the taste and literary discernment of the novel- 
reading public would gradually be raised." 
Having made this suggestion, Mr. Bagot pro- 
ceeds to enlarge upon the benefits, to both 
authors and readers, that might follow in the 
train of its adoption. He develops the argu- 
ment with caution, but with a very evident 
prepossession in favor of some such method 
as a means of stemming the flood of worthless 
fiction and of giving the novelist himself a 
kind of comisel of which he often stands in 
dire need. 

We can imagine the outcry of the amateur 
novelist, and of the professional sensation- 
monger, at any such suggestion of a " trust " in 
literary criticism. And the question of quis 
custodiet custodes could be very effectively 
raised by such a proposal. Originality, and 
even genius, might possibly for a time be sup- 
pressed by the operation of such a plan, but we 
cannot believe that in the long run it would 
not work more good than harm. The difficidty, 
of course, would lie in the constitution of the 
tribunal organized for this judicial sifting of 
the tares from the wheat. To accept the re- 
sponsibilities of a lihadamanthus in this matter 
wovdd be to accept a thankless task, and one 
certain to entail much discomfort upon the in- 
cumbent. The rage of the rejected woidd be 
anything but celestial, and would be declared 
in a manner both personal and pointed. Mr. 
Bagot appreciates the difficidty of the problem, 
and it is with no little diffidence that he pro- 
poses his press-constituted academy. But the 
experiment is not beyond the range of possibil- 
ity, and the library profession is already looking 
for some way of trying it. Certainly the long- 
suffering public, now misled by so many blind 
guides, deserves to have its interests protected 
by the critical guild more effectively than they 
are at present protected, and no suggestion 
aiming at so praiseworthy an end should fail of 
being examined with due deliberation. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



143 



COMMUNICA TION. 



LATE DISCUSSIONS OF THE WAR OF 1812. 
(To the Editor of The Dial.) 
In reading the re\'iew of Captain Mahan's "Sea 
Power and the War of 1812," in a recent number of 
The Dial, I notice what seems to me the omission of 
an important fact, and one that is none too prominently 
brought out in the book itself. There is, however, some 
discussion of it in the book, and it seems to me that it 
should have had a place in the re\'iew. It is the fact 
of the chief cause tliat led Great Britain to make such 
favorable tenus with us in ending the war. 

Tliat our land forces, in spite of the almost marvellous 
incapacity of the commanding generals and the blimder- 
ing and short-sightedness of the Washington government 
(and of Jefferson previously), finally did some fairly good 
work, is true ; and certainly our n&vj, considering how it 
was neglected at the start, was splendidly efficient. But 
when all of tliis is considered there is still not enough to 
account for the residt — for the readiness with which 
Great Britain made peace. It will of course be borne in 
mind that her gi-eat defeat at New Orleans — the defeat 
that riuned her most promising plan — was not known 
when she so readily entered into the arrangements for 
peace. Then what was the cause? It was not the 
problem of Xapoleon, — he was defeated ; and though 
England's expenses for the recent wars were heavy, her 
opportimity was good for getting a large part of it back 
from iLS. Russia, our friend, was certainly not in shape 
to go to war with the first sea power in the world to 
help us. There was just as certainly no other power to 
attempt it, even had there been another as friendly. 

But if Great Britain coidd hope to recoup herself 
from our lands and goods, was she in military shape to 
go on ? She was at the height of her military power. 
Wellington's veterans were out of the Peninsula, other 
forces had been organized, and there was sufficient money 
in the war-chest for immediate purposes. And on the 
sea Great Britain stood as she had never stood before, 
and probably never will stand again. She mmibered 
her war-ci-aft by the himdreds, and after the French 
shadow had been lifted she had more than two himdred 
vessels to send to our coasts. We had four large 
frigates, and not a sliip larger, and had mustered just 
seventeen fighting vessels at the beginning of the war. 
Before the negotiations at Ghent the larger number of 
our stronger vessels were taken or blockaded in port. 
Of our four large frigates, the " Constitution" alone kept 
the seas. True, as Captain Mahan points out, and your 
reviewer does not, before our little navy was so nearly 
crushed it had struck heavj^ financial blows at the enemy. 
This, indeed, wath the possible exception of the \'ictorj- 
on Lake Champlain, was its most formidable and telling 
work. It was the "work that Great Britain most seriously ■ 
felt. Her \idnerable point was not her body, but her 
pocket. Porter, in the little " Essex," before he was 
captured, did more to harm the enemy and to help our 
cause than aU oiir brilliant single-ship actions put to- 
gether. He practically destroyed the Biitish whaling 
interests in the Pacific. 

And now we are prepared to answer the question: — 
What led Great Britain to consent to peace-terms so 
favorable to us ? The answer is : it was the work of our 
privateers. Even Captain Mahan, who natiirally has 
a relatively high regard for the regular ser^-ice, and is 
not inclined to place a great value upon an irregular 



one, in part admits this. He says: "From September 
30, 1813, ... to the corresponding date in 1814, there 
were captured by American cruisers 639 vessels, chiefly 
merchantmen; a number that had increased to over 
a thousand when the war ended the following winter." 
He further goes on to estimate that fully 424 of these 
prizes were taken in foreign seas. He says, however, that 
we had lost more vessels relatively by capture than the 
enemy ; but he then goes on to say : " Her cruisers [i. e., 
the U. S. cruisers] were causing exaggerated anxiety 
concerning the intercourse between Great Britain and 
Ireland, which, though certainly molested, was not 
seriously interrupted." It will be observed that he does 
not minimize the effect that even an exaggerated fear 
might have in influencing the course of the enemy so 
alarmed. By the word " cruisers " is of course to be 
understood chiefly privateers. The small number of 
vessels in our regular navy has already been spoken of. 
But it has been said that all sorts of food-stuffs went 
up greatly in price in this country after the additional 
British war-ships came over, so that we were in fully as 
great straits as English subjects in this regard, and 
that therefore Great Britain had still an advantage. 
We only need to look at this statement for a moment to 
see where the truth lies. We had a great and prolific 
territory from which to obtain all necessary foods ; Eng- 
land had to import a great deal of what she used, and 
the wages and other incomes of those who must pur- 
chase were very low. At that time the whole of England, 
if divided equally amongst the people, would have given 
but a very few acres to each person — probably not more 
than five or six ; yet several great noblemen owned as 
many as ten to twenty thousand acres each, and a con- 
siderable part of this was not under ciUtivation. In this 
comitry we had hardly settled or cultivated beyond our 
mere borders, and there was laud by the million acres to 
be had almost for nothing. 

But let us glance for a moment at some actual figures 
of prices in England about this time. I quote from 
" The American Merchant Marine," though the figures 
have been published elsewhere. The work mentioned 
says : " In Jime 1813 the British people were paying the 
famine prices of 358 a barrel for flour, .338 for beef, 
and -336 for pork, while lumber cost S72 per thousand. 
It was this economic distress, more than our brilliant 
victories in a dozen naval duels, that brought Great 
Britain at last to terms." Here we have the story. 

Then shall we not still feel pride in our work in the 
War of 1812 ? W^e fought for our rights, we fought 
hard, and we won in the only way that we could have 
won. And be it remembered that these privateers 
whose work was so effective were not semi-pirates, like 
some that had been sent to sea by other countries : they 
sailed imder regiUar letters of marque; they were ex- 
pected to observe all the rules of civilized warfare, and 
did observe them ; and, finally, they often met and over- 
came vessels supposedly larger and stronger than them- 
selves, including some regular naval vessels. 

There is somewhat of a tendency (perhaps the result 
in part of reaction) to belittle our work in the War of 
1812. It is aided, doubtless, by some books now in use 
in our schools and colleges that give wholly the British 
side of the contest; the writer is prepared to quote 
chapter and verse in support of this statement. Let us 
not allow the pendiUum to swing too far the other way ; 
let us try to keep within the limits of truth. 

F. H. COSTELLO. 

Bangor, Maine, February 21, 1906. 



144 



THE DIAL 



[March 1, 



z l^fo looks. 



The Real, axd the Ideal, Whitman.* 



It is fourteen years since Walt Whitman died, 
and no full and formal biogi-aphy of him has yet 
appeared, unless we regard as such Mr. Henry 
Bryan Binns's recently-issued work, which mod- 
estly disclaims all pretensions to being either a 
definitive biogi-aphy or a critical study. The 
author, an Englishman, rightly looks to America 
to produce the final and complete life of this 
eminently American poet. Mr. Horace Traubel's 
memoirs of Whitman, " With Walt Whitman 
in Camden," extend over a period of less than 
four months, and obviously make no claim to 
anything like biographical completeness. They 
give us, in a good-sized octavo volume, rough 
notes of talks with Whitman, as thrown on paper 
from day to day, together with many letters of 
the period, or of an earlier time, addressed to 
Whitman. The whole book, unstudied and 
unpolished, conveys a realistic impression of the 
poet and the man, such as only a devoted Bos- 
well is able to give. 

Mr. Traubel is well styled by Mr. Binns 
" the old poet's spiritual son." Knowing and 
loving Whitman longer than he could distinctly 
remember, it was he who held Whitman's hand 
in his own when the old man drew his last breath 
in the little house in Mickle Street, Camden. 
He was named in the poet's will as one of his 
literary executors ; he was active in organizing 
the Walt Whitman Fellowship, of which he is 
secretary ; and it is probably his pen and voice, 
more than any other man's, that have kept 
Whitman's memory green durmg the last four- 
teen years. Coming from such a source, and 
written almost in the poet's very presence, Mr. 
Traubel's book appeals vividly to lovers of 
Whitman, and even the indifferent or scornful 
will find matter of quaint and curious interest 
in its pages. 

A book like Mr. Traubel's is not of the kind 
that lends itself readily to criticism. It is very 
part of the poet himself, and to criticise it would 
be to criticise Whitman, which is not the 
reviewer's purpose. A few illustrative passages 
will be given in aU their vmstudied mformality, 
and then the rea<ler will be left to seek a more 
intimate acquaintance with the book, or not, as 
he may feel inclined. Much of the talk and 

* With Walt Whitman in Camden ( March 28, — July 14, 1888). 
By Horace Traubel. Illustrated. Boston: Small, Maynard & Co. 

A Life of Walt Whitman. By Henry Bryan Binns. Illus- 
trated. New York : E. P. Button & Co. 



many of the letters revert, almost of necessity, 
to the old theme of the Whitmanism of Whit- 
man, and, in particular, to the " priapism," as 
Emerson once rather harshly called it, of certain 
passages in his poems. To the familiar defense, 
and the only defense, — the alleged harmlessness 
of all things to those who are themselves inno- 
cent, — most of us must sorrowfully shake our 
heads and acknowledge our inability to make 
adequate reply. In lialting and contrite accents 
we can only confess tliat such a state of blame- 
lessness is more tlian we can attain unto ; or, 
rather, it is a paradisaic condition from which 
we have long ago fallen. Sin, no more tlian 
disease, wUl be vanquished by denjdng its exist- 
ence. Not that Whitman makes any such denial 
in words ; it is his whole attitude that impresses 
one as a sort of bold-faced refusal to see aught 
but glad sunshine and smiling fields where 
others take anxious note of threatening thunder- 
clouds on the distant horizon and detect treach- 
erous quagmires beneath the fair appearance of 
flowery verdure. The very first page of Mr. Trau- 
bel's book shows us Whitman's determmation to 
find in nature only what he sets out to find. 

"W. handed me a leaf from The Christian Union 
containing an article by Hunger on Personal Purity, in 
which this is said : ' Do not suffer yourself to be caught 
by the Walt Whitman fallacy that all nature and all 
processes of nature are sacred and may therefore be 
talked about. Walt Whitman is not a true poet in this 
respect, or he would have scanned nature more accu- 
rately. Nature is silent and shy where he is loud and 
bold.' ' Now,' W. quietly remarked, ' Hunger is all 
right, but he is also all wrong. If Hunger had written 
Leaves of Grass that's what nature would have written 
through Hunger. But nature was writing through 
Walt Whitman. And that is where nature got herself 
into trouble.' And after a quiet little laugh he pushed 
his foi-efinger among some papers on the table and 
pulled oiit a black-ribbed envelope which he readied 
to me. . . ." 

Much of the conversation reported is trivial 
to all but ardent Whitmanites. Others are at 
liberty to skip, and will do so — whole pages at 
a time. It is not of great importance to most 
of us to be told that Whitman said, " Repeat 
that, Horace," or " Go over tliat again, Horace," 
or " I don't quite catch on," or " How 's that? " 
Needlessly faithful is the reporter in reproducing 
Whitman's little j)rofanities and vidgarities ; 
after a few samples the reader might well take 
the rest for granted. Putting aU this down in 
cold clear type has the effect of showing us 
Whitman in a false perspective. The printed 
page seems in some way to emphasize imduly 
what in the rapid give and take of informal talk 
falls more or less involuntarily and parentheti- 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



145 



cally from the lips. Yet for those to whom 
" the real Walt Whitman " cannot be too real, 
this excess of unattractive detail may be no 
excess at all. 

A Whitman pronoimcement on Matthew 
Arnold ought to be rather rich reading ; for 
two poets more unlike each other could hardly 
be imagined. Here is a part of a conversation 
between master and disciple soon after Arnold's 
death : 

" Whitman adds as to Arnold : ' He will not be 
missed. There is no gap, as with the going of men 
like Carlyle, Emerson, Tennyson. My Arnold piece 
did not appear in Tuesday's Herald. I wonder if the 
editor was a little in doubt about it ? It appeared 
to-day, however. The Herald has a higher opinion of 
Arnold than I have. I discussed Arnold in effect — 
throughout in such words — as one of the dudes of liter- 
ature. Does not Leaves of Grass provide a place even 
for Arnold ? Certainly, certainly: Leaves of Grass has 
room for everybody: if it did not make room for all it 
would not make room for one.' " 

Readers wdll note in the foregoing — for ex- 
ample, " throughout " for " though not " — Mr. 
Traubel's self-acknowledged carelessness as an 
editor ; but we gladly fall in with his himior 
and jjass the matter by as of small importance. 
A lack of sympathy equal to that between 
Whitman and Arnold might have been looked 
for between Whitman and John Addington Sy- 
monds. Yet the latter was an early and ardent 
admirer of the American poet. The subjoined 
passages are from a letter written by Symonds 
in 1872 in reply to one from Whitman. 

" Youi' letter gave me the keenest pleasure I have 
felt for a long time. I had not exactly expected to 
hear from you. Yet I felt that if you liked my poem 
you would write. So I was beginning to dread that I 
had struck some quite wrong chord — that perhaps I 
had seemed to you to have arrogantly confoimded your 
own fine thought and pure feeling with the baser metal 
of my own nature. AVhat you say has reassured me 
and has solaced me nearly as much as if I had seen the 
face and touched the hand of you — my Master ! . . . 
I have pored for continuous hours over the pages of 
Calamus (as I used to pore over the pages of Plato), 
longing to hear you speak, buruing for a revelation of 
your more developed meaning, panting to ask — ■ is this 
what you woxdd indicate ? — are then the free men of 
your land really so pure and loving and noble and gen- 
erous and sincere ? Most of all did I desire to hear 
from yoiu" own lips — or from your pen — some story 
of athletic friendship from which to learn the truth. 
Yet I dared not address you or dreamed that the 
thought of a student could abide the incAritable shafts 
of your searching intuition. Shall I ever be permitted 
to question you aud learn from you ? " 

Finally, a few lines showing the warmth 
of affection existing between " Walt " and 
" Horace " may serve to close this review of 
Mr. Traubel's volmne. 



"W. was very affectionate in his manner to-night. 
♦ Come here, Horace,' he said. I went over. He took 
my hand. ' I feel somehow as if you had consecrated 
yourself to me. That entails something on my part: I 
feel somehow as if I was consecrated to you. Well — 
we will work out the rest of my life-job together: it 
won't be for long: anyway, we'll work it out together, 
for short or long, eh ? ' He took my face between his 
hands and drew me to him and kissed me. Nothing 
more was then said. I went back to my chair and we 
sat in silence for some time." 

Of Mr. Binns's more formal treatment of the 
same theme much might be said, and most of it 
commendatory. A little too obvious, perhaps, 
is the author's effort to establish friendly rela- 
tions with his American readers and to give him- 
seK an air of familiarity with American history 
and American ways. The very dedication of his 
book, " To my mother, and to her mother, the 
Republic," is an advance bid for our good- 
will. AH the carefully-studied accompaniment 
of political and historical matter that runs 
through the book is somewhat suggestive of 
cram, and is not at all necessary to the complete- 
ness of the biography. It irks the reader to 
have the Wilmot Proviso thrust on his notice, 
or the split in the Democratic party narrated 
as a contributing cause of Lincoln's election. 
Whitman's anti-slavery attitude and his warm 
patriotism can be understood without these 
excursions into American history. The pride 
of recently-acquired learning — or, we might 
say, the imeasiness of ill-digested erudition — 
seems to betray itself in this parade of irrelevant 
matter. 

Mr. Binns ascribes much of Whitman's best 
development, and his attainment to the " power 
of seK-abandonment," to the influence of that 
unknown Southern woman with whom the poet 
had intimate relations for a few months in his 
early manhood. The whole affair is, and prob- 
ably always will be, shrouded in mystery ; but 
the ascription of any such benign and fructify- 
ing influence to an illicit connection of this sort 
is what one might have expected rather from a 
writer on the other side of the Channel than 
from an Englishman. The experience, whatever 
its exact nature, the author thinks to have been 
instrxunental in breaking down some barrier. 
" Strong before in his seK-control," writes Mr. 
Binns, " he is stronger still now that he has won 
the power of self-abandonment. Unconsciously 
he had always been holding himself back ; at 
last he has let himself go. And to let oneself 
go is to discover oneseK. Some men can never 
face that discovery ; they are not ready for 



146 



THE DIAL 



[March 1, 



emancipation. Whitman was." All this invites 
discussion, psychological and ethical. In some 
sort it brings up once more the old conflict be- 
tween Hellenism and Hebraism, or, as Mr. Hugh 
Black styles it, between culture and restraint. 
The danger seems to lie in our failing to distin- 
guish between the masterful facility that comes 
of perfect self-control and the comiterfeit ease 
that is the cheap and tinsel product of unre- 
straint. 

The author loves Whitman whole-heartedly, 
and the picture he presents is sympathetically 
drawn. Both in biographical detail and in criti- 
cal comment the book is an excellent piece of 
work, perhaps the fullest and best study of the 
poet's life and writings that has yet appeared. 
It is written in a pleasing and scholarly style, 
and every page bears marks of painstaking re- 
search. Two passages only can find space here 
for quotation. The first shall be an amusing 
and characteristic anecdote, which is probably 
new to most readers. 

" It is related that once in a Brooklyn church he 
failed to remove his soft hi'oad-brinnned hat, and entered 
the building with his head thus covered, looking for all 
the world like some Quaker of the olden time. The 
offending article was roughly knocked off by the verger. 
Walt picked it up, twisted it into a sort of scourge, 
seized the astonished official by the collar — he always 
detested officials — tromiced him with it, clapped it on 
his head again, and so, abruptly and coolly, left the 
church." 

This may recall a line from the " Leaves," — "I 
have hated tyrants, argued not concerning God, 
had patience and indulgence toward the people, 
taken off my hat to nothing known or unknown." 
The second selection is of a critical, interpreta- 
tive sort, comparing Whitman as a j)rophet (by 
no means as a man of letters) with Carlyle. 

" With Whitman, Carlyle recognised the underlying 
moral purpose of the universe, and the organic miity or 
solidarity of mankind; but being himself a Calvinistic 
Jacobin of irritable nerves, these convictions filled him, 
not with a joyful wonder and faith, but with contempt 
and despair. He never saw humanity as the body of a 
Divine and Godlike soul; and though he was continu- 
ally calling men to duty and repentance, he did so from 
inward necessity rather than with any anticipation of 
success. For he felt himself to be a Voice crying in the 
wilderness. Whitman worshipped the hero as truly as 
did Carlyle ; but then he saw the heroic in the heart of 
our common humanity, where Carlyle missed it; hence 
his appeal was one of confidence, not despair." 

The two books, the American's and the En- 
glishman's, may well be read together, the former 
filling in with minute and realistic detail the 
more largely-sketched and more liighly-idealized 
portrait presented by the latter. 

Percy F. Bicknell. 



Main Currents in Socioi^OGicAii 
Theory.* 



To get the force of Professor Small's book 
on "•' General Sociology" it is necessary to con- 
sider that originally it was an outline or syl- 
labus of a course of lectures delivered to the 
graduate students of the University of Chicago. 
Such a course of study, with modem University 
methods, usually leaves a large room for sup- 
l^lementary work. Hence, wliile we are not 
willing to admit the frank acknowledgment of 
the author that " in form it is rough, fragment- 
ary, and unsystematic," the book is somewhat 
unproj^ortional from the standpoint of a scien- 
tific treatise. However, as the author admits, 
it is not a treatise, but a critical analysis of the 
development and present status of sociology. 
It is a conspectus of sociology or a comparative 
study of sociological thought. Its purpose is to 
show what sociology is and what it is not, and 
while it does not build a scientific system of 
sociology it indicates broad lines of construction 
or synthesis of the same. The book is critical 
rather than constructive. While the author 
does not attempt to construct a system of sociol- 
ogy, he indirectly points out the way for others 
and indicates upon what foundation they must 
build. In reference to the various phases of 
development of sociology by different individ- 
uals, Professor Small lias shown that the dif- 
ferences of sociologists are more apparent than 
real on account of the various points of view 
and various methods of attack, and that they 
are all working on the same sociology with con- 



verging lines of thoiiaiit. 



Thi'ouo-h the great 



mass of contributions to the science, pseudo and 
real, he finds a constant line of development 
from the earliest authors to the present time. 
With tliis object in view he has brought out 
the knowledge necessary for the foundation of 
sociology in the various attempts that have been 
made to construct a science. It is a masterly 
array of material and forces and, in most parts, 
an arraignment of these before the critic's bar 
of justice. " Our thesis," says the author, "is 
that the central line in the path of methodo- 
logical progress, from Spencer to Ratzenhofer, 
is marked by gradual shiftings of effort from 
analogical representation of social structures to 
real analysis of social processes." In other 
words, the stress is now being laid on fimction 
where formerly it was laid upon structure. 
In the first chapter, on " The Subject Matter 

* General Sociology. An Exposition of the Main Develop- 
ment of Sociological Theory from Spencer to Ratzenhofer. By 
Albion W. Small. University of Chicago Press. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



147 



of Sociology," the author asserts that it is a 
process of human association, and then he 
proceeds to show that sociology attempts to 
interpret the whole process of human associa- 
tion. He asserts that facts of human associa- 
tion are not sufficient data for a science, but 
that " the whence, the how, the why, and the 
whither, of processes are essential to sociology." 
The relations, meaning, and valuations of facts 
other than the facts themselves represent the 
subject matter of sociology as well as of other 
sciences. It is the passing of knowledge over 
into power that makes a real science. It is the 
advancement of the knowletlge of what occxirred 
to a knowledjre of the meaning of what occurred. 
In addition to the establishment of the science 
of processes, the sociologist shoidd formulate a 
programme for the promotion of more and more 
rational social processes. 

In the following chapter, under the title of 
"Definition of Sociology," Professor Small gives 
the ordinary definitions, each of which bases the 
science on the association of men. He says that 
sociology is a unified view of human life and a 
l)ody of guiding principles for the conduct of 
life. He shows through analysis how this ap- 
pears, and adds that "• sociology is an attempt 
so to visualize and so to interpret the whole of 
human experience that will reveal the last dis- 
coverable grounds ujwn which to base con- 
clusions alx)ut the rational conduct of life," 
and finally closes the chapter vnth the more ac- 
curate and inclusive definition : " Sociologr is 
the science of the social process." Here again 
he emphasizes the study of the activities of 
sociology. Of all the phases of society function 
is the real essence of sociology. 

In Chapter III. Professor Small presents the 
*' ImpiUse of Sociology," in which he points out 
briefly its reasons to be one of the sciences. 
It is an attempt to show that the driving power 
of society arises in a philanthropic effort to 
make the world better, and that sociology is the 
scientific regulating power. This is followed 
in subsequent chapters by an historical survey 
of sociology'. This survey, as the anther points 
out, is necessarily meagre. However, sufficient 
is given for the support of his main thesis. 

Cher one-half of the main body of the book 
is taken up with a remarkable comparative 
analysis of Spencer. Schaeffle, and Ratzenhofer. 
It would be impossible for the reviewer to foUow 
this extende<l and masterh- analysis. The object 
is to show that Spencer considered society as 
composed of differently arranged parts in which 
he emphasized structure ; that Schaeffle, while 



accepting this, goes a step further and represents 
society composed of parts working together to 
achieve results, that he emphasized function or 
action of society ; and Ratzenhofer considers 
society as a process of adjustment by conflict and 
subsequently by cooperation between associated 
individuals. Professor Small is very keen in 
analysis, and while his analytical researches in 
the past have been of great service to students 
of the science, the value of the comparative study 
of these three great founders of sociology cannot 
be overestimated as a service to students. It is 
a demonstration of the main line of evolution 
of sociology. 

While the incompleteness of Spencer's method 
is made apparent, as a foundation of sociology 
his system is as essential as the foundation of a 
building to its superstructure. Where form and 
structure are made the essential framework of 
the system Spencer implies that they are brought 
about by social activities. However, Spencer 
represents the first step in the analysis of human 
association. Schaeffle, by emphasizing function 
and seeking the ultimate causes of structure, has 
taken the second step. But Professor Small 
points out the limitations of each by saying that 
Spencer " tended to seek the meaning of social 
structure in structure ; so Schaeffle 's limits are 
indicated by his tendency to see the meaning of 
social function in function rather than in casual 
and consequent conditions in the persons func- 
tioning." That is, structure and fimction are 
ends in themselves, which is contrary to Pro- 
fessor Small's interpretation of sociology. Fol- 
lowing the analysis of these two authors, he asks 
these four questions : '* First, what are the 
essentials of human association ? Second, how 
do these essentials change their manifestations 
from time to time ? Third, by virtue of what 
influences do these variations occur? Fourth, 
what social aims are reasonable in view of these 
conclusions from experience ? " And he uses the 
analysis of Ratzenhofer to show how these ques- 
tions may be answered. The analysis of social 
processes after Ratzenhofer is the most exact of 
any system yet presented. It includes the es- 
sential featui-es of Ratzenhofers " Sociologische 
Erkenntnis " and also his '• Wesen und Zweck 
der Politik." Ratzenhofer clearly represents 
the three steps in the development of sociology, 
and points out how structure occurs through 
fimction. He shows the causes of social activity, 
and in this demonstrates clearly the needs of 
social analysis. 

The remainder of the work, while still review- 
ing the opinions of other sociologists, is more of 



148 



THE DIAL 



[March 1, 



a constructive nature than the first part. A dis- 
cussion of the psychical, ethical, and technical 
makes up the outline of the remainder of the 
book. The most noticeable feature of this part 
of sociology, which is more nearly Professor 
Small's view of the science, represents its real- 
istic nature. Society is a real thing made up of 
the elements of everyday jjractice, and in its 
study we should follow human interests and 
human society wherever they lead. First must 
be considered the interests of the individual 
and his relation to the complete society. This 
should be followed by the relations of groups 
to one another and general social structure and 
f miction. 

As a book on general sociology this is a valu- 
able contribution to the literature on the subject. 
While the interpretation of himian experience is 
sufficiently emphasized, sufficient stress is not 
laid upon the evolution of human society as a 
means of arriving at a correct estimate of the 
present structure and activities. The processes 
through which society is made are alternate dif- 
ferentiation and integration. While it is true 
that Professor Small says we cannot explain 
society as it is by comparing it with a society of 
savages, the course of evolution through differ- 
entiation and integration gives a basis of under- 
standing which cannot be obtained in any better 
way. The scientist orients his subject by remov- 
ing complex or interfering forces. His point of 
departure must be a simple element or condi- 
tion. Social evolution gives the student this 
point of departure. 

Perhaps some fault might be found with the 
book on account of the voluminous nature of the 
discussion and the unevenness of its make-up. 
But the vigor of the author and his familiarity 
with the content and method of sociological wi-it- 
ings, his numerous illustrations, as well as his 
masterly analysis, make up for any lack of con- 
densation of material. It is not a book for be- 
ginners but for students of maturity of mind 
and acquired sociological knowledge. To such 
it will prove of great value, and in general is an 
impetus to the development of the science of 
sociology. It helps the student to realize the 
great advancement sociology has made in recent 
years, and what a stupenduous task is before 
scholars before it is reduced to scientific pro- 
portions. As Professor Small has pointed out 
what sociology is, and what it is not, and indi- 
cated what it should be, we trust he will go on 
in his studies and write a treatise on the subject. 

Frank W. Blackmar. 



Shakespearean TabLiE-Talk.* 



Perhaps it is wrong to call this ripe conmaent 
on Shakespeare by the name of Table-Talk. 
There is certainly nothing desultory, idle, ram- 
bling about it. Bnt other names do not suggest 
the quality of it. If we say " lectures " we think 
of some celebrity addressing a cultivated audi- 
ence gathered for a little titillation of literary 
recollection, or perhaps some learned professor 
giving the results of private studies while stu- 
dents toiled behind with note-books. If we say 
" studies " we think of conunentaries and dis- 
sertations, sources and texts. If we say " essays " 
we may mean anything from the most eccentric 
fancies about Shakespeare to an exliibition of 
universal scholarship. Here is nothing of all 
this. In this book we have a man who has read 
Shakespeare long and deeply and who now talks 
to us of typical plays. It is not talk at the 
dinner-table, precisely, for he has his book in 
hand, and at times will read half a page or a 
couple of lines. What name can we give it ? In 
its intention it is something like a great actor's 
presentation of his conception of Shakespeare's 
creations. 

As may have been already suggested, this book 
is more or less like Hazlitt's " Characters of 
Shakespere's Plays "; more, at least, than most 
of the recent weU-known books of criticism. Mr. 
Dowden studied the gTowth of Shakespeare's 
conceptions and their realization in dramatic 
form. Mr. Moidton studied the sj^ecial dramatic 
art of some lyrical plays. Mr. Barrett Wendell 
was taken up with the artistic temperament of 
Shakespeare, and sought to make us see that in 
all his work. Mr. Mabie gave a general account 
of the man against a background of Elizabethan 
life. Mr. Brand es gathered together the scholar- 
ship of the time and formed his own theories 
and conclusions. Mr. Sidney Lee got at every- 
thing that would give substantiation to any fact 
in Shakespeare's life. Mr. Stopford Brooke does 
none of these things, save here and there. He 
runs through each play, giving some general 
comment, interpreting each character, following 
out the dramatic development, presenting the 
prevailing ideas. He gives us not a study of 
the plays or a study of Shakespeare based upon 
the plays, but a picture of his own mind as he 
reviews the plays. That is what Hazlitt did, 
though in making the comparison, it is scant 
justice to Mr. Stopford Brooke to say that he 
seems to have thought over his subject with a 



•On Ten Plays of Shakespeake. 
New York : Henry Holt & Co. 



By Stopford Brooke. 



1906.] 



THE DIAI. 



149 



view to this particular book, much more carefully 
than Hazlitt could ever have thought over his 
lectures. 

The thing about Hazlitt that most impressed 
that devoted lover of Shakespeare. John Keats, 
was his "' depth of taste.'" Keats probably 
meant by that expression that exactly the right 
thing impressed Hazlitt alx)ut each character or 
play of Shakespeare. That does not impress me 
so much in Hazlitt's book as the fact that what- 
ever did impress him, impressed him so strongly. 
The book is almost as interesting in the view it 
gives of Hazlitt as in its \'iew of Shakespeare. 
Read for instance the beginning of the essay on 
*' Hamlet ": what a remarkable production to be 
set do^vn almost extempore. Hazlitt's power of 
thought in his power of expression was so remark- 
able that one of the chief interests in his criti- 
cism is that it gives one such an idea of what 
art may be to an indi^-idual. That is, in fact, 
Hazlitt's strong point as a critic : not his taste, as 
Keats thought, or his power as a " specidator " 
as Blackwood said, althoug^h both of those things 
are apparent in his book on Shakespeare. He 
is himseK so wonderfully impressed by literature, 
in this case by Shakespeare, that one gets up 
from a reading of his work with almost a new 
conception of literature as an element in life. 

Such is not ^Ir. Stopford Brooke's especial 
power. I am much more impressed by his '' depth 
of taste " than by Hazlitt's. Like Hazlitt he 
commonly speaks of the events of the plays, of 
the characters, as though they were events or 
characters in real life. He analyzes motives, 
explains utterance, calls attention to beauties of 
speech or thought.* But where his mind leaves 
the plays, it reverts to Shakespeare and his pur- 
poses. Hazlitt's mind reverted to himself as 
to the reader in general : Mr. Stopford Brooke 
thinks of the wT-iter. I shall admit, in passing, 
a greater interest in Hazlitt's method. We nat- 
urally talk of a play or a book as though it were 
a piece of real life ; there is often much to 
explain or describe. But where the critic goes 
beyond that, I like better to have him give us 
an idea of the effect of it all upon himself, than 
to have him tell us of the art of the dramatist. 
Literature is really of importance to us only as 
it affects us : otherwise it is history or science. 
These things are each excellent, but they are not 
rightly followed by literary methods. If a man 

•There is. of course, a danger here. Consider the pagres 
written • though not in this book I on Hamlet's madness. There 
is really no such question: the only possible question is. Did 
Shakespeare conceive of him as mad ? which is a very different 
thing, and to be decided on grounds very different from those 
often aU^ed. 



will show us what a vital factor Shakespeare is 
or has been in his thinking and being, he will 
be talking of something of which he knows. If 
he tell us of how Shakespeare created these plays 
and characters that may be so vital a force to us, 
he may be talking of something he knows, but 
it is more likely that it is something he only 
guesses about. And whether he know or guess, 
the matter is of historic or scientific importance, 
not of poetic. But it is to be said that the 
main point of Mr. Stopford Brooke's book is not 
here. He is content, as a nde, to interpret the 
play, the character, the passage in hand, and it 
is only here and there that he goes back to the 
author. 

As to the kind of comment, we have gener- 
ally to begin with, a few words about the play. 
" ZVIidsummer Night's Dream " represents the 
temper of Shakespeare's soid in earlier years ; 
" The Merchant of Venice " is matle up out of 
such and such materials in earlier literature. 
Then generally comes an interpretation of the 
action, then comment on the character. Or some- 
times instead of these last being carefully taken 
up, we have a discussion of two or three topics 
of chief interest, as with " Coriolanus " where 
the author deals with " (1) Shakespeare's treat- 
ment of the political question in Rome ; (2) the 
character and fate of Coriolanus; (3) Corio- 
lanus and his mother." WTiat is said on these 
matters is generally, in its intention, perfectly 
simple. It may be well to quote a passage. 

" Opposed to him in character, but his friend, is 
Mercutio; wit's scintilating star, thrilling with life to 
his finger-tips, not caring for women save as the toys 
of an hour, ready to tackle, on the instant, any woman, 
young or old; brave, audacious, going swiftly to his 
point, keepittg no thought within him but flinging it at 
once into his speech ; ' he will speak more in a minute than 
he will stand to in a month ' ; quick in choler, ready to 
attempt the moon and puU the sun down, loose of 
speech, mocking old and young out of the racing of his 
blood — the gay ruffles of Italy, such as Shakespere 
often met in London, such as many of the Italian novels 
enclose and paint."* 

Some impatient scholars may possibly put 
this aside, with an inquiry for something new 
in the book, something beside a re-statement of 
the material of the play. A nvunber of little 
matters, more or less new, may be noted, as for 
instance : that Shakespeare had a feeling of true 
sympathy for the common people (pp. 7, 223); 
that in " Romeo and Juliet " he was thinking 
of "■ the long suffering justice who punishes 
quarrels which injure the state" (p. 35, cf. 

* It should be added that this is only the gist of aereral 
paragraphs on Mercutio. 



150 



THE DIAL 



[March 1, 



pp. 64-68); that Mercutio was not too brilliant 
for Shakespeare to keep alive (p. 44) ; that 
Shylock was a hot-blooded, passionate, resolute, 
dignified man of sixty (p. 152); that Jacques 
is not a cynic, or even bitter (p. 172); that 
Prospero is the last of the great mediaeval en- 
chanters (p. 286); and naturally many more 
such views. 

But it is not to be said that the value of the 
book depends upon its new discoveries or its 
new views, or on the new standpoint or the new 
spirit in which the critic regards the plays. In 
just this fact itseK lies its great value. Here is 
a critic who turns on no new light, who oifers 
no new theory, who proclaims no discovery, 
who presents no new conception. What, then, 
does he add to Shakespearean scholarship or 
Shakespearean criticism. Perhaps Mr. Stopford 
Brooke woidd be satisfied if he were generallj^ 
esteemed to have added nothing at all. For it 
is clear that what he wants is not to make more 
criticism or more scholarship, but to make his 
readers see that there is more in Shakespeare 
than they supposed. He puts aside critical 
apparatus and scholarly theory, and is content 
simply with the plays. Perhaps he wrote this 
book not in a great library, not even in a well- 
provided study, but — it may be — out-doors 
with notliing but the plays and pencil and 
paper. He certainly might have done so. 

The professional critic or Shakespearean 
scholar is a little at sea with such treatment. 
He has not much to say : there is not much 
to discuss or raise a dust about. Of course 
you can disagree anywhere. I open at random 
and pretty soon read " Orlando and Rosalind ! 
could anyone desire to have more charming, 
more sunshiny companions than these two en- 
chanting persons ? To live with them is to live 
with moral beauty, but it is not a beauty which 
the pharisaic moralist will like at all." I sup- 
pose I may be something of a pharisaic moralist 
myself, for I never had any such feeling about 
Rosalind and Orlando as Mr. Stopford Brooke 
has ; so I might dissent from that dictimi as 
from many others in the book. 

But agreement or disagi'eement in particulars 
is not the point. To make us see more in 
Shakespeare, that is the writer's desire. A bold 
midertaking, one will say, after a century of 
devoted Sliakespearean study, scholarship, crit- 
icism, appreciation. But in all that century 
there have been few books so single-minded as 
this. 

Edward E. Hale, Jr. 



Alabama i> W ar-Timk and After.* 



For a long time the South was largely a 
neglected field to the historical student. Re- 
cent years, however, have seen a marked devel- 
opment of interest in the study of the history 
of tliis part of the comitry, as is evidenced by 
the increased activity of historical societies and 
the establislmient of state departments for the 
preservation and publication of historical rec- 
ords in several southern states. In several 
northern universities distinct courses in south- 
ern history are now being given, and in other 
respects it is beginning to receive the attention 
which lias long been bestowed upon the history 
of the northern states. Recently a number of 
excellent monographs on particidar periods of 
southern liistory have appeared ; and it is prob- 
ably no exaggeration to say that the liistory of 
no other state has been so well wi-itten up as has 
the early period of South Carolina. 

In " Civil War and Reconstruction in Ala- 
bama," a volume of over 800 pages, by Pro- 
fessor Walter L. Fleming, we have the most 
comprehensive and valuable work of the kind 
that has yet been written. It shows evidence 
of intimate knowledge based on wide research, 
is fair and judicial yet sympathetic in tone, and 
is altogether a most interesting jjicture of life 
in a southern state dui'uig and munediately fol- 
lowing the Civil War. As a proper backgToimd 
for the study of the Ci^il War and Reconstruc- 
tion period, the author has described the society 
and institutions that were destroyed by the war. 
The population of the state, its industries, the 
develojjment of secession sentiment, the disrup- 
tion of the religious denominations, the eman- 
cipation sentiment in northern Alabama, are 
some of the topics discussed. Then follows the 
story of secession, the preparation for the com- 
mg struggle, military operations on Alabama 
soil, the problems of conscription and exemp- 
tion, and the peace movement. In northern 
Alabama, a region unconnected with the rest of 
the state by railroads and geogTapliically a part 
of Tennessee, the people were largely opposed 
to the war ; and this locality became a nest of 
" tories," deserters, and '' mossbacks " from all 
over the South, and they caused the State and 
Confederate authorities no little trouble. Be- 
sides their opposition to the war, they com- 
mitted outrages on both Confederate and Union 
sympathizers and terrorized the coimtry gener- 



* Civil War and Reconstruction in Alabama. 
L. Fleming, Ph.D. New York: The Macmillan Co. 



By Walter 



1906.] 



THE DTATi 



151 



all}'. For a time there was talk among them 
of sece<ling from Alabama, and, together ydth. 
the counties of East Tennessee, forming a new 
state vdth the name of Nick-a-Jaok. 

Particularly instructive and fascinating is 
Professor Fleming's account of social and eco- 
nomic conditions during the ^^-ar : new industries 
created by the necessities of the war, blockade 
running and trading through the lines, the con- 
duct of the slaves, educational activity, the 
struggles of the newspapers to keep going, life 
on the farm, the hardships and destitution of 
the families left behind, etc. The condition of 
the state at the close of the war, with its deserted 
and neglected farms, paralysis of business, 
wTecked railroads, poverty-stricken people, law- 
lessness and disorder, with demoralizetl negroes 
roaming about the country testing their new 
freedom and refusing to work, — these make a 
pictui'e which no one can now study without 
profound sympathy. The reorganization of the 
state in accordance with the Johnson plan of 
Reconstruction, the overthrow of this plan by 
Congress, the military regime, and the activity 
of the Freedmen's Bureau, are de^*ribe<l with 
detail. The author's judgment with regard to 
the Freedmens Bureau is that it tlid little good 
and in many cases did much harm. The sub- 
ordinate agents in Alabama, he says, were mostly 
broken-<lown men who had failed at other under- 
takings, preachers with strong prejudices, and 
the •• dregs of a musteretl-out army." The insti- 
tution in Alabama, he declares, was entirely 
unnecessary. Cotton was worth fifty cents a 
pound, and the extraordinary demand for labor 
guaranteed good treatment for the laborers. 
A^^latever suffering the blacks endured was 
mainly due to their congregation in the tov^ns 
and to their own shiftlessness. Through a gen- 
erous disti-ibution of government rations they 
soon came to entertain the l>elief that it was the 
duty of " Uncle Sam " to support them whether 
they worked or not. Finally, imscrupulous and 
designing officials took advantage of their posi- 
tion to make a jwlitical machine of the Bureau, 
and instances were not lacking where they de- 
frauded the credidous blacks by selling them 
painted sticks which, they were told, entitletl them 
to forty acres of land of their o\sti selection. 

An interesting feature of Mr. Fleming's work 
is an elaborate account of the various orders 
and leagues which played an important part in 
the life of the state during the Reconstruction 
period. The most notable of these were the 
Union League, organized among the negroes by 
northern white men, and which became a potent 



political machine, and the Ku Klux Klan, organ- 
ized among the southern whites for maintaining 
order, but which eventually degenerated into an 
organization of persecution and murder. Inter- 
esting and unique is the author's description of 
the effects of the Reconstruction policy upon 
the educational and religious life of the people. 
The State University was " ratlicalized " and 
practically broken up, and in many cases negro 
churches were disrupted by differences of politi- 
cal opinion among the members. 

Alabama was more fortunate than some of her 
southern sisters, — notably ^lississippi, Louisi- 
ana, and South Carolina, — in escaping from the 
worst evils of negro and •• Carpet-bag " nde ; but 
even as it was, no true American can read the 
story \s'ithout a sense of shame and humiliation. 
There was not an honest white man living in 
the state during Reconstruction, saj'S Professor 
Fleming, nor a man, woman, or child, descende<l 
from such a person, who did not then suffer, 
or does not still suffer, from the direct results 
of " Carpet-bag " financiering. 

James Wilford Garner. 



Precepts for the Yoijxg, axd 
ref1.ectiox.s for the old.* 



President King's new book could be described 
as an inspiring guide to rational living, or a col- 
lection of amiable platitudes, according to the 
point of view. It should be read especially by 
the young, for even the moderately old have not 
only heard the story before but, alas ! they are 
little able to profit by it, if they have neglected 
its teachings hitherto. Listen to this : 

" Our intellectual as well as our moral day of grace 
is limited. It is of no use to rebel at the facts, it is 
folly unspeakable to ignore them. We are becoming 
bundles of habits. With every young person one must, 
therefore, continually urge: Are you willing to retain 
just the personal habits you have now? You cannot 
too quickly change them if you wish to make thorough 
work. From your early morning toilet, through the 
care of your clothing and the order of your room, table 
manners, breathing, tone of voice, manner of talking, 
prommciation, gesture, motion, address, study, to your 
Ten.- way of sleeping at night — all your habits are 
setting like plaster of Paris. Do you wish them to set 
as they are? " (p. 62). 

Excellent and jjertinent advice this — for the 
young : but what about the poor old dogs who 

• Batiojtal Living. Some Practical Inferences from Modem 
Psychology. By Henry Churchill King. New York : The Mac- 
millan Co. 

Life and Reijgiox. An Aftermath from the Writings of the 
Right Honorable Professor F. Max MuUer. [Edited] by his wife. 
New York : Doableday, Page &, Co. 



162 



THE DIAL 



[March 1, 



have learned about all the tricks they will ever 
know ? They know, too well, their own frailties 
and inabilities ; it is with them no longer a 
question of what they may become, but of what 
they can do with such wits and strength as they 
possess, in this wicked world. 

" Clear and definite thinking, moreover, moves di- 
rectly and imhesitatingly toward its goal, and for that 
very i-eason seems to be a distinct help to decisive action. 
For all purposeful action involves the use of definite 
means to definite ends. Definiteness in thinking, thus, 
seems to be directly connected with decision in action, 
and vagueness of thinking with indecision and weak- 
ness " (p. 121). 

Yes, indeed, poor old brain of mine ! You and 
I have found that out these many years ago, 
but liave found, also, that it is not always easy 
to see in a fog. Circumstances are sometimes 
too much, do what we will. But for the yoimg, 
could there be more admirable counsel ? Think 
straight and hard, and rely upon your own wits ! 
Resolve to become, and you will become, to a 
considerable extent ! The day is yoimg, and 
the possibilities are great ! ( How fortunate it 
is, that a new generation walks upon the stage 
every little while ! ) 

All things considered, we must believe that 
President King's book will carry a real and 
valuable message to those for whom it was in- 
tended ; and if it seems to some barren of new 
thought, and not especially distinguished in 
style, these impressions should not be held to 
condemn it ; for they represent, as it were, only 
the back view of the edifice. 

" Life and Religion " is a volume of extracts 
from the writings of the late Professor Max 
Miiller, selected and arranged by liis wife. It 
is not a controversial work, and slioidd not be 
treated as such ; rather, it is as though the 
veteran humanist and philologist invited the 
reader to sit with him by the fireside, and there 
confided to him the thoughts and aspirations 
which had guided his path during a long and 
successful life. Who woidd refuse such an 
invitation ? Who would listen with other than 
deferential, if not reverential, attention ? Pos- 
sibly, on grounds of philosophy or science, or 
from the standpoint of our own religion, some 
of the professor's ideas may be wrong ; but 
what of that ? His star served well to make his 
wagon go, and that to good purpose, and is 
entitled to our regard, if only for its past per- 
formance. This very thought, indeed, is one of 
those most cherished by Max Muller himself, 
in relation to other peoples. HimseK a true 



Christian, he had become too intimate with the 
thoughts of other peoples, past and present, not 
to regard their aspirations with sympathy and 
appreciation. " True Christianity, I mean the 
religion of Christ, seems to me to become more 
and more exalted the more we know and the 
more we appreciate the treasures of truth hidden 
in the despised religions of the world " (p. 24). 

The first impression of the book is perhaps a 
little disappointing ; because, from its necessa- 
rily disjointed nature one does not instantly 
perceive the uniting thread. If a man is heard 
making statements about the Himalaya Moun- 
tains, or the Arctic regions, we are likely to 
give him scant attention, until some remark or 
expression betrays the fact that he has been 
there himself. So it is with Max Miiller : many 
of his paragraphs sound much like the empty 
professions of those who have learned such things 
by rote ; but one does not read far mthout find- 
ing that the author speaks whereof he knows. 

" Everyone carries a grave of lost hope in his 
soul, but he covers it over with cold marble, or 
with green boughs. On sad days one likes 
to go alone to this God's acre of the soul, and 
weep there, but only in order to return full of 
comfort and hope to those who are left to us " 
(p. 205). Ah yes I good friend. 

No doubt the most significant message of the 
book is contained in its interpretation of Chris- 
tianity. Max Miiller believed himself to be a 
Christian in the fullest sense, and to me it seems 
that he was wholly justified. Yet the orthodox, 
so-called, will be horrified to read : 

" When we think of the exalted character of Christ's 
teaching, may we not ask ourselves once more, What 
would He have said if He had seen the fabulous stories 
of His birth and childhood, or if He had thought that 
His Divine character would ever be made to depend on 
the historical truth of the Evangeha In/antice ? " (p. 27). 

" If Jesixs was not God, was He, they ask, a mere 
man ? A mere man ? Is there anything among the 
works of God, anything next to God, more wonderfid, 
more awfid, more holy than man ? Much rather should 
we ask, Was then Jesus a mere God ? . . . A God is 
less than man. True Christianity does not degrade the 
Godhead, it exalts manhood, by bringing it back near 
to God " (p. 34). 

" Then it is said. Is not Christ God ? Yes, He is, but 
in His own sense, not in the Jewish nor in the Greek 
sense, nor in the sense which so many Christians attach 
to that article of their faith. . Christ's teaching is that 
we are God, that there is in us something divine — that 
we are nothing if we are not that. . . . Let us bestow 
all praise and glory on Christ as the best son of God. 
. . . Christ never calls Himself the Father, He speaks 
of His Father with love, but always with humility and 
reverence " (p. 21). 

T. D. A. COCKERELL. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



153 



Recext Fictiox.* 



The grandiose trilogy of '* Christ and Antichrist," 
as conceived in the teeming fancy of IVIr, Dmitri 
Merejkowski, is now completed with the publication 
of '' Peter and Alexis." This work is possibly richer 
in material than either of its predecessors, but its 
construction is so hopelessly chaotic as to preclude 
any serious claim to consideration as a work of art. 
What we have is a formless aggregation of curious 
facts and pedantries Ulustrative of St. Petersburg in 
the early eighteenth century, of the barbarism of a 
people reluctantly tm-ned toward civilization by the 
masterful Tsar, and of sti-ange mediaeval supersti- 
tions mingled with wild religious vagaries. The fig^e 
of Peter is dominant throughout, but it is a figure 
of traits so contradictory that it assumes no definite 
outline in our imagination. As far as it may be 
exhibited by a single quotation, it appears in this 
passage : " At six in the morning he began to dress. 
Pulling on his stockings he noticed a hole ; he sat 
down, got a needle and a ball of wool, and began 
darning. Ruminating about a road to India in the 
footsteps of Alexander of Macedonia, he darned his 
stockings." Contrasted with the fiery and brutal 
energy of Peter, we have the futility and degeneracy 
of his weakling son, a maudlin character utterly 
unequal to the responsibilities laid upon him. The 
action culminates with the terrific scene of torture 
in which the life of Alexis is sacrificed to his father's 
insensate rage. We say action, but of a truth 
there is little action of any connected sort in the 
work viewed as a whole ; the treatment is episodical 
and disjointed throughout. The author's immense 
display of learning and his untamed vigor of de- 
scription are made devoid of artistic effect by the 
almost total absence of restraint and correlation. 
The result is absolutely bewildering. As in the pre- 
ceding sections of this trilogy, the antithesis is plain 

• Peter axd Alexis. The Romance of Peter the Great. By 
Dmitri Merejkowski. New York : G. P. Putnam's Sons. 

On the Field of Glory. An Historical Novel of the Time of 
King John Sobieski. By Henryk Sienkiewicz. Translated by 
Jeremiah Curtin. Boston: Little, Brown, & Co. 

Napoleon's Love Story. A Historical Romance. By Waclaw 
Gasiorowski. Translated by the Count de Soissons. New York : 
E. P. Button & Co. 

The Cherry Ribband. By S. B. Crockett. New York: A. S. 
Barnes & Co. 

A Maker of History. By E. Phillips Oppenheim. Boston: 
Little, Brown, & Co. 

The Ford. By Arthur E.J. Leg&e. New York: John Lane Co. 

My Friend the Chauffeur. By C. N. and A. M. Williamson. 
New York: McClure, Phillips & Co. 

Vivien. By W. B. Maxwell. New York: D. Appleton & Co. 

The Great Refusal. By Maxwell Gray. New York: D. 
Appleton & Co. 

The Conquest of Canaan. By Booth Tarkington. New 
York : Harper & Brothers. 

The House of a Thousand Candles. By Meredith Nichol- 
son. Indianapolis : The Bobbs-Merrill Co. 

Heart's Desire. By Emerson Hough. New York: The Mao- 
millan Co. 

The Fair Maid of Graystones. By Benlah Marie Dix. New 
York : The MacmiUan Co. 

BARB.ARA WiNSLow, REBEL. By Elizabeth Ellis. New York : 
Dodd, Mead & Co. 

The Wheel of Life. By Ellen Glasgow. New York : Dou- 
bleday. Page & Co. 



enough. Peter is the embodiment of Antichrist in 
the eyes of the horror-stricken orthodoxy which he 
80 recklessly defies. So in " The Death of the Gods " 
Julian was Antichrist to the primitive church, and 
in *' The Forerunner " Leonardo da Vinci was Anti- 
christ to the mediseval church. But is it the author's 
wish to enlist our sympathies on Peter's side as he 
enlisted them on the side of the apostate and the 
artist ? If this be the case, he has failed as signally 
as he succeeded in the earlier volumes. Viewing 
the trilogy as a whole, we must say that '• The Fore- 
runner " is immeasurably finer than either of the 
other parts. Not merely is it wrought of metal more 
attractive, but in the manner of its workmanship it 
also excels. 

"On the Field of Glory," by Mr. Henryk Sien- 
kiewicz, breaks a silence of several years, during 
which the distinguished Polish romancer has been 
resting upon his well-earned laurels. It is a book 
of about the dimensions of "The Knights of the 
Cross," and deals with the period of John Sobieski 
and the anxious years of the impending Turkish 
invasion. We confess to some disappointment upon 
finding that the great victory of Sobieski is only 
foreshadowed in this narrative, instead of being 
presentetl to us with the magnificent descriptive 
power that the author knows how to apply to such 
situations ; but perhaps he is keeping that theme in 
reserve for a supreme effort. It is surely manifest 
destiny that he, and no other, should deal with it. 
The title of the present romance is thus a misnomer, 
for the book ends before any of its characters have 
reached "the field of glory," although they spend 
much of their time in talking about it. In other 
words, although the story has this baekground of 
patriotic expectancy, it is in reality a story of private 
interest, a love-story of freshness and charm, a story 
of strange manners and exciting adventures. 

Some of the younger Polish critics, it seems, have 
been charging the Sienkiewicz school of fiction with 
sterility, whereupon the leader of that school has 
pointed to certain of his colleagues by way of refu- 
tation, and particularly to Mr. Gasiorowski, whose 
quality we may now appraise in '• Napoleon's Love 
Story," just translated into English. The author 
is a yoimg man, and this romance is chiefly remark- 
able for its length, caused by a remorseless sp i n nin g 
out of dialogue and elaboration of descriptive detail, 
but it may, nevertheless, be read (or skimmed over) 
with a fair degree of satisfaction. Its theme is 
the episode of Napoleon's visit to Warsaw in 1807, 
and his resulting romantic attachment to Madame 
Walewska. The character of the heroine is depicted 
for us with much subtlety, while her imperial lover is 
the same familiar figure with which we have become 
acquainted in other works of romantic invention. 

Mr. Crockett is a most indefatigable producer of 
novels. His latest, " The Cherry Ribband," is of a 
piece with its predecessors ; at least with those of its 
predecessors which find the author upon his native 
heath — or in his native kail-yard or among his 
native moss-hags. — and deals with the troublous times 



154 



THE DIAL 



[March 1, 



of the Covenant. It has an abundance of sturing 
adventure, of duelling, fighting, and romance. The 
strong figiu-e of Claverhouse appears upon the scene 
from time to time, but plays no very conspicuous 
part in the action. Mr. Crockett is as good as ever 
in his characterization of eccentric Scotch types. 
The book deserves well of the reader, albeit it is 
little more than a replica of earlier ones. 

The Dogger Bank incident has been ingeniously 
utilized by Mr. E. Phillips Oppenheim for his latest 
Active invention, "A Maker of History." It seems 
that this was, after all, a deliberate attempt to force 
England into war with Russia. A secret treaty had 
been concluded between the Tsar and the Kaiser 
whereby the invasion of England was imminent. But 
it so happened that a young Englishman, an innocent 
tourist, was a witness of the meeting between the 
two monarchs, which was brought about by the con- 
junction of two imperial trains, at a secluded point 
of the railway. Not only was the young English- 
man there in hiding, but he became jjossessed of a 
page of the treaty itself, which was blown out of the 
window of the carriage in which the momentous 
agreement was drawn up. As he could not read 
German, he knew nothing of its significance, but 
simply tucked it into his pocket. Afterwards he went 
to Paris, talked innocently but indiscreetly about his 
adventure, and was promptly kidnapped. His sister 
went in search of him, and was also kidnapped. No 
harm was done them, but they remained in the 
custody of the French Secret Service in order that 
the German Secret Service might not get hold of 
them. Next comes an English baronet, who sees 
a photograph of the girl, falls in love with it, and 
assumes the role of amateur detective. AU the par- 
ties concerned have adventures of the most surpris- 
ing description, until the need for secrecy no longer 
exists, because the French government has check- 
mated Russia and Germany in their sinister game. 
Those who know Mr. Oppenheim's methods as a 
novelist will hardly need to be informed that this 
stirring story is told with neatness and despatch. 

"The Ford," by Mr. Arthur E. J. Legge, is a 
quiet story of English life, illustrating the relations 
between two families — one of aristocratic and an- 
cient lineage, the other the social outcome of that 
well-known product, Harrold's Household Soap. The 
parvenu becomes the neighbor of the lord, and a 
ford across the stream which flows by their estates 
provides a convenient subject of dispute. It is a 
Montague and Capulet affair, but turns out happily 
in a way, although the most sympathetic character 
in the novel is drowned while crossing the ford, and 
we shall never feel quite sure that the heroine ought 
not to have married him instead of the scion of the 
enemy's stock. The book is simple and genuine, and 
its style has the touch of poetic distinction to be 
expected of a writer who has also won the laurels of 
a singer of songs. 

The trick of making an interesting novel out of 
the incidents that make up the life of a party of 
tourists is not as simple as it seems. Since the effoi'ts 



of William Black in this dhection, we can think of 
no others who have been quite as successful as Mr. 
and Mrs. Williamson. And the fact that their trav- 
ellers have for a vehicle the modern motor-car instead 
of the antiquated phaeton gives to their narratives 
the needed touch of timeliness. " My Friend the 
Chauffem" " tells how an English baronet and an 
Irish peer (in prospect) personally conduct a party 
of three female Americans through northern Italy 
and into Dalmatia, harassed all the time by the atten- 
tions of an Austrian prince, who is the villain of the 
piece. (We wonder why it is that Austrian princes 
make such satisfactory villains.) The climax is 
reached in Montenegro, when the villain lures the 
heroine into a deserted house, and would force her 
consent to a marriage. The marriage that really 
comes off is a diff'erent sort of affair, in which the 
impoverished scion of the Irish nobility figiu'es as 
the leading man. A second marriage in prospect as 
the book closes is that of the baronet with the enfant 
terrible of the tale, who it seems is not a child at 
all, but a maiden of seventeen, masquerading in short 
clothes and long braids to oblige her mother, relict 
of Simon P. Kidder, of Denver, U. S. A. This mother 
has sentimental leanings toward the prince, despite 
whose villainy she turns a willing ear to his protes- 
tations. A peculiar feature of the story is that it is 
told, in tiu'n, by each of the five persons making up 
the party in the motor-car. The attendant prince 
alone has no chance to describe matters from his 
point of view, which is rather a pity. 

The name of " W. B. Maxwell " is non-committal 
as to sex, but " Vivien " is a woman's novel. It is, 
moreover, one of the best novels that we have read 
for a long time, by a writer of either sex. Its ele- 
ments are familiar enough — the neglected girl, the 
dreary years at a cheap boarding-school, the heart- 
breaking task of earning a living in a London shop, 
the consequent privation, misery, and iUness, the 
inevitable persecution by the wealthy libertine, and 
the eventual rescue by the j)rince of her dreams. 
But despite the hackneyed nature of its plot, as thus 
revealed in skeleton, the work has both originality 
and distinction. The interest is so varied, the nar- 
rative so broadly humanized, the delineation of char- 
acter so true and fine, that oiu" attention is com- 
pletely absorbed from first to last. The spirits of 
tenderness and pity brood over it, and the recurrent 
note of forgiveness, however seemingly dark the sin, 
adds a divine touch to the work. And a very serious 
work it is, although animated in its movement, a 
work that sounds the depths of the human mystery, 
and confronts the reader with the darkest riddles of 
life. Having these qualities, it is matter for satis- 
faction that the story is told upon a generous scale 
— there are more than six hundred pages — and 
gives us comprehensive studies of character and situ- 
ation rather than the glimpses afforded by the im- 
pressionist. Such a novel is like an oasis in the 
desert to the weary reviewer, and rewai'ds him for 
much toiling through the arid wastes of popular 
story-telling. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



155 



A singularly charming and appealing book is 
^'The Great Refusal," by the novelist who calls 
herself " Maxwell Gray." It assumes, to be sure, 
something too much of the character of a sociological 
tract in the closing chapters, and is based upon over- 
wrought sentiment rather than upon any practical 
form of idealism, but is nevertheless so fine in motive 
and so graceful ia diction that criticism is measure- 
ably disarmed. The " great refusal " is made by the 
hero, who renounces wealth and position to become 
a common workingman, and eventually embarks in 
a socialistic venture liaving for its object the estab- 
lishment of a Utopian commonwealth in Africa. 
These are not his only sacrifices, for love also is 
cast aside, and it is not imtil the end of much suf- 
fering that his early passion is replaced by one fixed 
upon far surer foimdations. The characterization is 
excellent, alike of the two women, the devoted hero, 
and his masterful father, whose money seems to 
the son too tainted for legitimate enjoyment. Nor 
is the hero in any sense depicted for us as a prig 
or a weakling, but rather as a genial, athletic, and 
altogether wholesome specimen of the best English 
manhood. The style of the novel, also, is natural as 
to dialogue, and charmingly allusive as to description. 

" The Conquest of Canaan " is a thoroughly read- 
able book, made so by its genial description of vil- 
lage types of character, and enough of a story to 
make the chapters hang together. Canaan is in 
Indiana, and it is conquered by the town ne'er-do- 
weU, who seems to have in him aU the makings of 
a vagabond ; but who instead develops strength and 
determination. This transfoi-mation of an outcast 
into a leading citizen is sketched with considerable 
skill, and incidental himior is not lacking. A very 
pretty love story adds warmth and romantic color- 
ing to this the latest of Mr. Tarkington's pleasant 
inventions. 

" The House of a Thousand Candles " is a house 
of mystery situated somewhere in the depths of 
Indiana. It has secret panels and subterranean pas- 
sages, and the departed owner is reputed to have 
concealed vast treasures somewhere within it. This 
makes it an object of burglarious enterprise on the 
part of the surrounding jwpidation, and the coming 
of the new owner, to whom the house with all its 
contents has been left, is by no means a popular 
happening. This owner is a young man of roving 
disposition, to whom the propeiiy has been left 
under singular conditions, one of which is that he 
shall make it his residence, and not leave it for a 
full year. Since his life is attempted on the very first 
day of his arrival, the prospect is at least exciting. 
But he proves game, and sets about solving the mys- 
tery for himself. Presently, an interesting romance 
develops, the other pei*son concerned being an in- 
mate of a neighboring school for girls. Startling 
episodes occiu* in swift succession, the machinations 
of all the villains are thwarted, the romance comes 
to a happy conclusion, and in the end we have the 
gi'eatest surprise of all, which it would be heartless 
of us to reveal. 



Mr. Hough's " Heart's Desire " is a book some- 
thing like Mr. Wister's "The Virginian," and quite 
as much or as little of a story. Heart's Desire is a 
remote mountain settlement of the southwest, hav- 
ing for its population one doctor, two lawyers, a few 
cowboys and miners, and no women. Its entire cir- 
culating medium amounts to about three hundred 
dollars, which frequently changes hands, and now 
and then, by the fortunes of the game, is temporarily 
collected in the pockets of some one citizen. The 
story begins with the advent of the first woman, and 
in subsequent chapters are chronicled the beginnings 
of litigation, art, music, and other accessories of civ- 
ilization. Presently a corporation comes with a rail- 
road in its gift, and what continuity' of interest the 
story has centres about the project. The book has 
both sentiment and humor, both after the fashion 
long ago set by Bret Harte, and makes a brave pre- 
tence at showing that a free life under these primi- 
tive conditions is much better worth having than the 
trammelled existence of more settled communities. 
The argument is stifficiently pei-suasive to compel 
temporary assent, and that is all the story needs for 
its sympathetic enjoyment. There can be no doubt 
that it is enjoyable, and that Mr. Hough has sur- 
passed his best previous efforts for our entertainment. 

Miss Beulah Dix is an accomplished artificer of 
historical romance, and has worked successfully in 
the material offered by seventeenth-century England 
and America, by puritans in Massachusetts, and by 
the conflict of roundhead with cavalier. It is to the 
latter phase of her acti^aty that " The Fair Maid of 
Graystones " belongs, and the book turns out to be 
a very pretty story indeed. Besieged Colchester has 
just fallen into the hands of the parliamentary army, 
and one of the consequences is that Jack Hethering- 
ton becomes a royalist prisoner. Then follows a sur- 
prising series of adventures for this engaging hero, 
brought about by the fact that he is taken for a cousin 
of the same name, and thereby becomes responsible 
for many villainies laid to the charge of that unwor- 
thy person. How he clears himself from this tangle 
it is the business of the novelist to unfold, and she 
does it without straining our sensibilities more than 
is strictly necessary for the purposes of a full-grown 
romance. The historical substratimi of the tale is of 
the thinnest, and chiefly takes the form of a conven- 
tional reflection of the manners and speech of the time. 

" Barbara Winslow, Rebel," by Miss Elizabeth 
Ellis, is another historical romance with an English 
setting, its scene being laid just after the defeat of 
Monmouth at Sedgemoor. Here we have a fascina- 
ting heroine, aiTested for harboring rebels, and a 
victim of Jeffrey and the Bloody Circuit. Sentenced 
to a brutal punishment, she is saved by one of the 
king's officers, who thereby becomes himself a rebel, 
and the two take flight together. They are clearly 
in love with one another to any eyes but their own, 
but the inevitable misundei'standing supervenes, 
holding them at arm's length through the requisite 
nmnber of chapters. Barbara is a young woman of 
the pert and proud type so dear to the romantic 



166 



THE DIAL 



[March 1, 



heart, and her soldier lover has the complementary 
\drtues that the situation requires. The story has 
heen told, essentially, a hundred times before in as 
many different guises, but it usually makes a pretty 
one, and in this case no complaint may be made of 
it for lack of interest or excitement. 

We are not altogether satisfied that Miss Glasgow 
should again have deserted her native heath (if a 
Virginia plantation may be thus designated) for 
the allurements of the metropolis and its so-called 
" society." As we said of " The House of Mirth," it 
is next to impossible to make a story of human interest 
out of the vapid and insolent life of the idle rich, and 
even the delicate art of Mrs. Wharton was balked in 
the effort. Now Miss Glasgow's art, although pos- 
sibly stronger, is less delicate, and by so much she 
has been even less successful than the writer with 
whose latest work "The Wheel of Life " is brought 
into inevitable comparison. We may say in behalf 
of the newer novel that it offers us at least one 
fine character in the person of its hero, who is in 
" society " but not of it, and another of strong but 
elusive charm in the person of the woman poet 
whose apparition haxmts many of the pages. But 
as compared with " The Deliverance," for example, 
this work is an inferior production. 

William Morton Payne. 



Briefs ois^ New Books. 



"Lone mother ^he peninsula to which the name of 
of dead Italy has been given for long ages 

empires." presents some of the most compli- 

cated problems in historical geography of all the 
continent of Em-ope. Consolidated under the Roman 
rule in the early half of the third century, B. C., the 
peninsula was visited and pillaged by almost all of 
the barbarians in the early Chi'istian centuries. The 
Ostrogoths occupied it in the fifth century, A. D., 
imtil Justinian obtained possession and reestablished 
the Roman Empire there. It became an exarchate 
of the Byzantine Empire about the middle of the 
sixth century, and a few years later the Lombards 
wrested it from the Empire. By the Treaty of Verdun, 
in 843, it was separated from the Western Empire, 
and in the tenth century it was united to Germany in 
the empire then formed. The Papal State then es- 
tablished proved a bar to complete Italian nationality 
until very recent times, and from that time until the 
nineteenth century jwilyarchy existed in Italy. From 
the tenth to the thirteenth century, feudal principal- 
ities and republics were established ; and most of the 
republics were transformed into principalities before 
the end of the Middle Ages. In the fifteenth century, 
Milan, Florence, the Papal State, the oligarchic Re- 
public of Venice, and the Kingdom of Naples, formed 
a pentarchy. The Normans conquered the southern 
part of the peninsula and established the Kingdom of 
the Two Sicilies. France and Spain at times had 
possessions in Italy, and a large portion was once 



incorporated into Austria. For three centuries the 
potentates of Europe were accustomed to ask, " What 
action shall we take in Italy ? " During the greater 
part of the eighteenth century, Italy was at the dis- 
posal of Europe, f m-nishing a country wherein conven- 
ient principalities were found for throneless princes. 
In twenty-one years, Sicily changed masters four 
times ; Parma, three times in seventeen years. Napo- 
leon I. created a kingdom in Northern Italy. In 1815 
the peninsula was again divided among pi-inces, and 
was dominated over by Austria. Not until 1860 
was the kingdom of Italy finally established by 
Victor Emmanuel, King of Piedmont. Ten years 
later, the State of the Church disappeared from the 
map of Italy, and "United Italy" was perfected. 
Dxiring the polyarchy, Italy was the cradle of the 
Renaissance in art, in letters, in diplomatic institu- 
tions, in banking, and in commerce. It would appear 
an- extraordinarily ambitious undertaking to write 
the history of such a country and its people in a sin- 
gle volume ; yet Mrs. Augusta Hale Gifford, in her 
" Italy, her People and their Story " (Lothrop Pub- 
lishing Company), has not only furnished a worthy 
companion volume to her deservedly popvUar "Ger- 
many, her People and their Story," but has suc- 
ceeded in giving a readable account of the people 
who have occupied the peninsula from Roman times 
down to the present day, thi'oughout all the vicissi- 
tudes of their political goverment, — a peoi^le who 
have been distinguished in the fields of art, letters, 
music, and government. Very naturally, the first part 
of the work (about 400 pages ) is largely drawn from 
Gibbon's " Decline and Fall," and brings the history 
down to the time of Theodoric. A single chapter 
of the second part serves for the course of history 
from Theodoric to Charlemagne, more than five cen- 
turies. Nine chapters serve for the interesting but 
complicated history of the country to the Napoleonic 
era. From 1792 to the present time, the most 
interesting period, diu-ing which time the " Italian 
Question " was continually before the world, the 
history is given with considerable attention to de- 
tails, and altogether the volume is of exceptional 
value both from its historical accuracy and its pop- 
ular style. — Mr. Henry Dwight Sedgwick, in his 
" Short History of Italy" (Houghton, Mifflin & Co. ), 
has not undertaken such an ambitious task as Mrs. 
Gifford's. He takes up the history in the year 476 
and closes with the last year of the nineteenth cen- 
tury. He has a good sense of proportion, and good 
ideas of historical perspective ; he writes in a vivid 
style, and possesses a keen sense of hmnor which 
contributes not a little to the entertaining quality of 
his book. Altogether, his volume, by no means as 
small as its name might indicate, is entitled to a 
place in the front rank of " short histories." A 
chronological table of the Popes and Emperors, a 
genealogical table of the Medici, a skeleton table of 
the Kings of the Two Sicilies, and an admirably 
selected list of books for general reading, give Mr. 
Sedgwick's volume permanent value as a book of 
reference. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



157 



The foremoxt In writing of a man whose thorough- 
fZddcon''^'' going egoism was tempered by none 
to Hume. too benevolent a spirit, and whose 

chief claim to influence upon contemporary English 
thought was his power to arouse opposition, it is per- 
haps not unnatural that the biographer's tone should 
contain a note of defense. Sir Leslie Stephen, who 
has written a life of Thomas Hobbes for the '* En- 
glish Men of Letters " series (Macmillan), evidently 
felt that his subject was in need of appreciation, 
and that the reading public ought to become better 
a«iuainted with ••the most conspicuous English 
thinker in the whole period between Bacon and 
Hume." Hobbes belonged distinctly to the period 
in which he lived, and is indeed a product of it. Out 
of its spirit of scientific investigation grew his ma- 
terialism ; out of the disturbed political situation in 
England grew his famous theory of sovereignty as 
embodied in •• The Leviathan "; and out of these 
conditions, added to the struggle between Church and 
State, grew his somewhat strange conception of mo- 
rality. His present biographer tells us that he had 
•'formed and begun to execute a remarkable plan. 
He intended, like a sound logician, to lay down the 
first principles of scientific inquiry, to apply them to 
what we should now call psychology, setting forth 
the laws of human nature, and finally to foimd upon 
this basis a science corresponding to modern soci- 
olog}'." His point of view is essentially scientific ; 
the method of Euclid impressed and influenced him 
greatly, as did also the fact that the one universal 
phenomenon is motion. Since he developed all liis 
conclusions from '•undeniable first principles" (as 
he called them), we are tempted to look forward 
and arbitrarily class him Avith the later continental 
rationalists. His actual physical speculations, admits 
his biographer, can liave no interest except as speci- 
mens of eai'ly guessing, and his theology is practi- 
cally of no value. But his political theory is by no 
means so easily disposed of, and stands out, even 
to-day, coherent and logical. Sir Leslie Stephen has 
sunuuai'ized it with care and precision, and has dis- 
cussed it with interest. 



Literary Ger- With the publication of " Young Ger- 
^tiu^"ear?v many" ( Macmillan ) , the sixth volmue 

19th century. of the •'Main Currents in Nineteenth 
Century Literature," by Dr. Georg Brandes, the task 
of presenting that great critical work to English 
readers is completed. The task has been long- 
delayed, and its full accomplishment is a noteworthy 
event. Although the average age of the six volumes 
is upwards of thirty years, their vitality- has suffered 
little impau-ment with the lapse of tune, and we may 
read them to-day with almost the zest with which 
we made their acquaintance in the seventies. The 
period of this concluding volume of the work lies 
between the Congress of Vienna and the gi'eat rev- 
olutionary yeai"s of the mid-century. Heine is the 
central figure in this act of the literary di-ama, 
while among the lesser performers are Borne, Hegel, 
Menzel, Immermann, Gutzkow, and Freiligrath. " It 



is a mighty panorama, this, which the study of the 
feelings and thoughts of Germany, first oppositionist, 
then revolutionary', between 1815 and 1848, unrolls 
to our view." And it grows ever in interest, up to 
the culminating scene of 1848, when " a long shud- 
der (of pain and at the same time of relief) passed 
through the whole of Germany. It was as if a win- 
dow had been opened, and air had reached the lungs 
of Europe." This year of •' great spiritual signifi- 
cance " is in literatui'e •' the red line of sepai-ation 
that divides our century and marks the beginning 
of a new era." It is difficult to keep within bounds 
our admiration for the energj'. the insight, and the 
profound philosophical basis of this master-work of 
criticism. A single preg^nt sentence may be quoted 
from the final chapter : •' Between the years 1830 and 
1840 something has been happening qtdetly, deep 
down in men's minds — Goethe's poetry and Goethe's 
philosophy of life, at first championed exclusively 
by enthusiastic women, have been steadily gaining 
influence over the cultivated, making them proof 
against theological impressions but receptive to all 
great hiunan ideas. The cult of Goethe leads by 
degrees, even in the case of women, to the cult of 
political liberty and social reform." The impact 
of this work upon the alert minds to which it came 
in the seventies, both as an inspiration and as a 
trumpet-call to renewed spiritual endeavor, may best 
be illusti*ated by what Dr. Ibsen wrote the author 
just after the appearance of the first volume. " I 
must tm-n to what has lately been constantly in my 
thoughts, and has even disturbed my sleep. I have 
read yoiu" Lectures. No more dangerous book could 
fall into the hands of a pregnant poet. It is one of 
those works which place a yawning gulf between 
yesterday and to-day. After I had been in Italy, 
I could not understand how I had been able to exist 
before I had been there. In twenty years, one will 
not be able to comprehend how spiritual existence 
at home was possible before these lectm-es. . . . Your 
book is not a history of literature according to the 
old ideas, nor is it a history of civilization. I will 
not trouble to find a name for what it really is. It 
reminds me of the gold-fields of California when 
they were first discovered, which either made nul- 
lionares of men or ruined them." 

, . . " Louisiana, a Record of Expansion " 

Louutana at , .ii-ii ••!_ 

anAmei-ican IS the title of the latest issue in the 

commonueaUh. uggful •' American Commonwealths " 
series (Houghton, Mifflin & Co.). The author, Mr. 
Albert Phelps, a native of New Orleans, has based 
his entii-e narrative upon a close study of the origi- 
nal sources of Louisiana history, and the result is a 
very good aecount of the position that Louisiana has 
occupied in the history of American settlement and 
the expansion of American institutions. It is worthy 
of note that throughout the work two important points 
are emphasized : the significance of the Mississippi 
Valley in the history of American development ; and 
the effect of negro slavery and its aftermath upon 
political and social problems. In developing the im- 



158 



THE DIAL 



[March 1, 



portance of Louisiana as the key to the Mississippi 
basin, Mr. Phelps gives a full and interesting descrii> 
tion of the French and the Spanish domination over 
the lower Mississippi Valley, the continual pressure 
of the Anglo-Americans against the southwestern 
frontier, and the final annexation and absorption of 
the territory into the Union. The absolute neces- 
sity, political, commercial, and geographical, of the 
possession of the Mississipj)i valley to the states of 
the North is shown to have been one of the fatal 
causes of weakness to the Confederacy. On slavery 
and the problems growing out of it, especially as com- 
plicated by Louisiana conditions, the author writes 
with full knowledge and keen insight. The institu- 
tion of negro slavery and its effects are traced from 
colonial times to the jwesent day. Like others 
who have studied the race-question thoroughly, Mr. 
Phelps has come to the conclusion that there " never 
was a negro problem," but that the mulatto is the 
really important factor in the so-called race problem, 
the black negro seldom or never being troublesome 
unless made so temporarily by white or mulatto 
leaders. As to the future of the negro, the author 
thinks that it is by no means assured ; the negro finds 
it increasingly difficult to compete with the better 
equipped white man in the struggle for existence. 
A fact set forth in this account, not generally known, 
is that the Spanish rule over Louisiana was much 
better than that of France, and better than the early 
American administration in the territory. Seldom 
remembered, also, is the fact that in the American 
Revolution material assistance was given by Louisi- 
ana to the revolting colonies. Other phases of state 
history to which some attention is devoted are the 
gradual fusion of nationalities after the annexation, 
the Burr intrigue and the War of 1812, the troubles 
leading to secession, the Civil War period, the Butler 
regime in New Orleans, and the Reconstruction of 
the state from 1862 to 1876. The account of the 
Reconstruction, though brief, is the first satisfactory 
treatment of that tumultuous epoch in Louisiana 
history. Particularly useful is the examination and 
evaluation of the testimony taken by the various com- 
mittees of Congress that investigated conditions in 
that unhapi^y state between 1866 and 1876, during 
the reign of the mulatto and the " carpet-bagger." 
The book closes with a short sm-vey of present con- 
ditions in the commonwealth. 



Aaoodvopuiar ^ ^}^^ ^^ ^'''^^O' ^J Mr. Basil de 
introduction to Selincourt, is a recent addition to that 
the art of Giotto, admirable series, "The Library of 
Art" (imported by Scribner ). Its author, in follow- 
ing the older traditional views, stands at variance 
with such modern critics as Perkins and Berenson. 
This fact is evident in his remarks on the Roman 
school of painters of the thirteenth and fourteenth 
centuries and its relation to Giotto, as well as in his 
treatment of the chronology of the master's works. 
His arguments are not always the soundest, nor is his 
criticism as discriminating as it might be. Moreover, 
his treatment of the whole subject lacks thoroughness. 



The frescoes in the transept of the lower church at 
Assisi, which have been ascribed to Giotto by some of 
the best authorities, he puts aside as not genuine, with- 
out adequate discussion. He ignores not only the 
little panels in Munich, which have been seriously as- 
cribed to the gi'eat Florentine, but also the " Presen- 
tation " of Mrs. Gardner's collection in Boston, and 
the Giotto-like frescoes in San Antonio at Padua. 
Added to this he casts suspicion upon the genuine- 
ness of Giotto's altar-piece in the Louvi'e, without 
giving adequate reasons for such doubt. It would seem 
that the author lacks the trained eye and mind of the 
connoisseur, since he bases his conclusions upon the 
content of the pictures rather than upon that which 
forms the true basis of discriminating criticism — the 
details of technique and of style. Yet after all has 
been said, this is, within its limitations, a good book. 
Mr. De Selincourt very jjroperly gives most space to 
his description of Giotto's panels in the sacristy of St. 
Peters, and of his great frescoes at Assisi, at Flor- 
ence, and at Padua. His comments upon Ruskin's 
criticism of the Paduan frescoes are excellent. He 
loves his subject, and his enthusiasm, which is prop- 
erly tempered, is just what is needed to inspire the 
i-eader with a desire to know more of the great Flor- 
entine and his art. The j)rominence which the author 
gives to the subject-matter of the pictures, together 
with the literary flavor of much of his writing, makes 
his book an excellent popular introduction to the art 
of Giotto. So used, the text, accompanied as it is 
with many excellent illustrations, should prove of 
much value to beginners in the study of art, and may 
serve them better than would many a more scientific 
but less enthusiastic work. 



„ ,.,,.- , Miss G. E. Mitton's volume on " Jane 

Kntihsh life and i i rn- u / n 

wavK in Jane Austeu and her Times ( Putnam ) 
Austen's time. jg another attempt to piece out the 
very uneventful story of INIiss Austen's life with 
an account of her eighteenth-century environment. 
The few facts of her life have all been told many 
times before, and her friends and the places she 
visited have all been fully described. So Miss 
Mitton goes still further afield, making Jane Austen 
simply a good excuse for a rambling, discursive, 
but not uninteresting account of the manners and 
customs of her day. This survey, she argues, will 
be of especial value inasnmch as Miss Austen her- 
self, in her novels and her letters alike, makes so 
few references to the great events or the ephemeral 
interests that environed her. So Miss Mitton tells 
us how Jane travelled, and how she might have 
travelled if she had ventiu-ed on to the Continent, 
what she studied at school, how clergymen like her 
father were regarded, what people ate in those days 
and what they wore, how they managed the serv- 
ant question, and how they escaped paying postage. 
Her contemporary authors get a chapter ; so does 
the British navy, apropos of her two brothers' con- 
nection with it. We are told how Jane and her 
heroines liked Bath, what adventures they had at 
Southampton, and what Jane saw and might have 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



169 



seen in her visits to London. " Society and Love- 
making " is the title of a chapter describing the 
balls and routs of the time, telling of the exag- 
gerated head-dresses of the ladies, the gloves they 
saved so carefully for the minuet, and the money 
they lost at cards. It ends with a circumstantial 
account of all Jane's love affairs, viewed in the light 
of the theories of love which her novels seem to 
enunciate. There are copious extracts from the 
novels and from Jane's letters, as well as from the 
standard biographies. But if the present work does 
not attain to, or claim, much orig^inality, it is a clever 
and readable compilation, with something about it 
of the sprightly freshness of Miss Austen's own work. 
Twenty illustrations reproduce portraits of the Aus- 
ten family and some of their friends, and scenes of 
contemporary life as some of the eighteenth century 
artists have depicted it. 



More of 
Mr. BirrelVg 
ettays. 



Mr. Augustine Birrell's latest volume, 
" In the Name of the Bodleian " 
(Scribner), is characteristically full of 
•quaint fancies, brilliant sallies of wit and hvunor, 
keenly-calculated judgments of men and things, and 
an erudition that pointedly avoids beaten highways to 
<5ull its treasures from odd nooks and dusty corners. 
Mr. Birrell is a book-worm, but he rides his hobby 
s<S gaUy, with such a vivid appreciation of all the 
more human relations of life, that others besides 
book-worms find hiin suggestive and sympathetic. 
The title-essay, a delightful account of the foimda- 
tion and history of the great Oxford library, has for 
its occasion the financial straits of that institution. 
The paper on " First Editions " is a sensible and 
amusing comment on the controversy between the 
collector and the man who scoffs at him ; and " Bos- 
well as Biographer " is an analysis of Macaulay's 
and Carlyle's respective estimates of " Bozzy," unin- 
spired by the publication of any more modem opin- 
ion. But generally the point of departure is a new 
book or a new edition. In " Hannah More Once 
More " Mr. BirreU seizes the opportimity afforded 
him by the publication of Marion Harland's biogra- 
phy to make an engaging apology for that other 
essay in which he rudely related how he buried Miss 
More's works, in nineteen calf-bound volumes, in his 
garden. A laudatory life of Tom Paine, by Mr. 
Moncure D. Conway, leads to a vigorous analysis 
of Paine's peculiar genius, and the republication of 
Matthew Ai-nold's " Friendship's Garland " to a 
trenchant description of " Our Great Middle Class." 
The subjects are of a more special interest, the treat- 
ment correspondingly slighter and more casual, than 
in the " Obiter Dicta " ; but the new volmne has its 
full share of the fine flavor imparted by Mr. Birrell 
to everything he touches. 

Improving the ^^- ^udgett Meakin is the author of 
workingman's a book on " Model Factories and Vil- 
»urroundinrjs. j^ges " ( A. Wessels Co. ) , which con- 
tains an immense amount of information, both inter- 
esting and instructive, m regard to the progress made 



during the past century in matters referring to the 
welfare of the laborer and artisan. Even to those 
best acquainted with the efforts that are being made 
for better conditions of labor and of housing, much 
of Mr. Meakin's material will be entirely new, re- 
markable, and encouraging. Especially interesting 
is the well-supported statement that the merchants 
and manufacturers who have led the movement for 
industrial betterment have done so as business men 
and not as philanthropists, and the corollary that 
improved living and working opportunities have been 
the cause and not the result of increased business 
success. Mr. Meakin's book is divided into two parts, 
the first section dealing largely with the elementary 
efforts made by manufacturers whose buildings were 
situated in the centres of cities toward ameliorating 
the conditions of light, air, sanitation, dining facili- 
ties, and recreation ; and with the efforts, more inher- 
ently successful, of those who had recognized the 
underlying principle that cheap land, away from the 
heart of the city, in a district that might be suitably 
surrounded by the homes of the workingmen, was 
the essential for real improvement. The mmiber and 
importance of the factories in America, England, and 
on the Continent that have taken advantage of im- 
proved traffic facilities to avail themselves of country 
sites will be only less surprising than the photographs 
shown to illustrate the combined beauty and economy 
which is the result. The second half of Mi'. Meakin's 
book deals with " Industrial Housing," and is prac- 
tically a supplement to the first part, since it illus- 
trates the success which manufacturers have had, in 
their various and varied schemes, toward surround- 
ing their workshops with ideal villages. The whole 
book is strongly indicative of the trend toward 
cooperation that modern industry is taking. 

A dictionary ^^ ^® honest, as Hamlet remarks, is 
of famous to be one man out of ten thousand. 

American. ^o be famous in the United States 

was of the same degree .of rarity a few years ago, 
when the first issue of "Who 's Who in America" 
appeared. One out of five thousand is the present 
ratio, which should stiU be reasonably satisfactory 
to the one. In other words, the eight thousand bi- 
ographies of the first edition have become sixteen 
thousand in the fourth, now at hand from the house 
of Messrs. A. N. Marquis & Co. This volume, like 
its predecessors, has been compiled and edited by 
Mr. John W. Leonard. A new feature is provided 
by the inclusion of brief references to those men- 
tioned in the earlier issues, who have since died. 
There are more than two thousand closely-printed 
pages in the present volume. We have exhausted 
our vocabulary in testifying to the usefulness of this 
work in connection with the earlier editions, and will 
only repeat the simple statement that it is invaluable. 
We particularly commend to the attention of judi- 
cious readers the preface, which is a highly enter- 
taining essay. We may read therein, for example, 
of the clannish individual who submitted the name» 
of thirty-three of his relations as suitable for inclu- 



'm 



THE DIAL 



[March 1, 



sion, of the female "grafter" who offered (for a 
consideration) to secure recognition for unsuspected 
genius, and of the unpublished poet whose " blank 
(not to say blank ety-blank) verse" about Lincoln 
was offered in evidence that the writer belonged 
among the immortals. For these, and other delightful 
matters, we thank Mr. Leonard, aside from his ser- 
vices in providing the harassed editor with an indis- 
pensable book of reference. 

o . . A collection of brief biographical 
Some American -i-ii. 

women of a sketches, characterized by a real in- 

bv-goneday. terest of subj ect-matter and a pleas- 
antly unconventional manner of treatment, is Mr. 
Seth Curtis Beach's " Daughters of the Puritans " 
(American Unitarian Association ) . Catherine Maria 
Sedgwick, Mary Lowell Ware, Lydia Maria Child, 
Dorothea Lynde Dix, Margaret Fuller, Harriet 
Beecher Stowe, and Louisa M. Alcott are the par- 
ticular women about whom Mr. Beach has chosen to 
write. Of nearly every one of them an authoritative 
biography or memoir of some sort has been written, 
and one purpose of these essays is to call attention 
to the more elaborate studies and to stimulate interest 
in them. One of the interesting disclosures of these 
sketches, which are studies of personality rather than 
more formal and studied biography, is the picture 
of the early nineteenth century which they inciden- 
tally convey. Life was very simple in those far-off 
days, and literature, too, was simple and unsophis- 
ticated ; but neither life nor literature ever lacked 
serious inspiration. Nearly every author was also a 
reformer, with a pet cause to write for and to work 
for in other ways. Probably few of Mr. Beach's 
readers will care to read a book about each of the 
seven women with whom he deals ; but there is not 
one in the list about whom good Americans should 
be willing to remain in complete ignorance. 



BRIEFER MENTION. 



Mr. Ernest Newman's volume of " Musical Studies" 
(John Lane Co.) is made up largely of critical essays 
previously printed in the leading American musical and 
literary journals. The six chapters in the hook are de- 
voted to " Berlioz, Romantic and Classic," " Faust in 
Music," " Programme Music," " Herbert Spencer and 
the Origin of Music," " Maeterlinck and Music," and 
"■ Richard Strauss and the Music of the Future." Mr. 
Newman^s groupings of principles and motives are on a 
broad and comprehensive scale, and are free from the 
ambiguity that mars so many works on musical criticism. 

Professor Harald Hoffding's " The Problems of Phil- 
osophy " (Macmillan) is not an abridgment of the au- 
thor's philosophical theories, hut rather a defence of the 
four problems that he holds to be the basis of philo- 
sophical thought, namely : The problem of the nature of 
consciousness (the psychological problem), the problem 
of the validity of knowledge (the logical problem), the 
problem of the nature of being (the cosmological prob- 
lem), and the problem of value (the moral and religious 
problem). While Professor Hoffding is one of the most 
thoughtful and learned scholars in his particular branch 



of knowledge, he is not, even in his " History of Modern 
Philosophy," distinctly lucid and simple. And in this 
new volume, an abstract discussion of abstract princi- 
ples, his style carries him beyond the possibility of ac- 
companiment by the layman. But since the book is, in 
the nature of the case, intended for philosophers and 
teachers of philosophy, its usefulness will not be much 
impaired by its abstruseness. 

A little manual dealing with the life and art of Ra- 
phael has been prepared for the use of art students by 
Mrs. Julia Cartwright Ady, and is issued as the four- 
teenth volume of the " Popular Library of Art " (But- 
ton). Mrs. Ady is accustomed to the preparation of far 
more elaborate studies than this, but she uses the smaller 
space at her command with muoh discrimination, writ- 
ing what is, withm its limited compass, a singidarly 
complete account of the character and development of 
Raphael's work. She is of course thoroughly familiar 
with modern critical opinion, and as iar as it goes her 
work is exact and scholarly. Fifty reproductions of the 
artist's work illustrate the volume. 

Mr. John Sampson has edited for the Oxford Univer- 
sity Press (Henry Frowde) "The Poetical Works of 
William Blake." This is " a new and verbatim text from 
the manuscript, engraved, and letter press originals," 
and includes, by way of apparatus, both variorum read- 
ings and bibliographical material. The text of Blake has 
been so overlain with the emendations of (not always 
judicious) editors that its restoration was highly desir- 
able, and this Mr. Sampson has scrupulously done for 
us. Pimctuatiou is all that this editor has ventured to 
add to Blake's originals, and this could hardly have been 
omitted. We cannot be too gratefid for this beautiful 
and scholarly edition of the great mystic. 

Poetry, romance, art, architecture, history of wars^ 
between individuals, factions, and races, — all these play 
their part in Mrs. Janet Ross's " Florentine Palaces and 
their Stories " (Dutton). Mrs. Ross has every qualifi- 
cation for writing a book of this kind. Herself a resident 
of Florence for thirty-five years, and an associate of its 
best citizens, familar with all their traditions and customs,, 
and moreover a diligent student of their archives, she 
has compiled a book which takes precedence of any other 
in the same field. The number of palaces described is 
seventy-six. A very complete index renders the mass of 
tradition available for ready reference, and the illustra- 
tions from drawings by Miss Adelaide Marchi help to 
make up an exceedingly attractive volume. 

Seven new volumes have recently been added to the 
well-known " Newnes' Art Library " (Wame). These 
are boimd uniformly with the rest of the series, in boards 
with cloth back, gilt lettered. Each volume contains a 
frontispiece in photogravure, about sixty full-page half- 
tone plates, and a brief textual comment. A number 
of the half-tones in the volume on Rossetti are made 
more effective by being moimted on rough grey mats. 
Mr. Ernest Radford furnishes the text for this volume, 
and Mr. Malcolm Bell writes of Titian, Mr. P. G. 
Konody of Filippino Lippi, Mrs. Arthur Bell of Tinto- 
retto, Mr. Ars^ne Alexandre of Puvis de Chavannes, 
Mr. Henry Miles of " The Later Work of Titian," and 
Mr. J. Ernest Phythian of " The Pre-Raphaelite Bro- 
therhood." These introductory sketches are largely bio- 
graphical, except the last-named, which is an exposition 
of the motives and relative positions of Madox Brown, 
Holman-Himt, Millais, and Rossetti. Beginners in art 
study will especially appreciate this very attractive series. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



161 



Notes. 



" Sermon Briefs," by Henry Ward Beecher, is pub- 
lished at the Pilgrim Press, New York. It consists of 
transcriptions from Beecher's manuscript notes made for 
sermons preached during the years 1864-5. 

Attention having been newly recalled to " Die Waf- 
fen Nieder," the historical romance of the Baroness von 
Suttner, by the recent award of the Nobel peace prize, 
Messrs. A. C. McClurg & Co. now republish their trans- 
lation of the work, as made by Mrs. Alice Asbury 
Abbott many years ago. This version is entitled " Ground 
Arms," which is both idiomatic and exact. 

"Model English Prose," compiled by Pi-ofessor 
George R. Carpenter, and published by the Macmillan 
Co., is a volume of selections for the use of secondai-y 
schools. The selections are not only representative of 
their authors and periods, but are also extremely inter- 
esting on their o\^'n accomit, and it is seldom that we 
are offered a school-book which so completely deserves 
to be described as good reading. 

The EngUsh " Who 's Who " for 1906, published by 
the Macmillan Co., calls for about the same sort of 
comment as previous issues. ITiere are many new 
biographies, and the selection of American names is as 
capricious as ever. Removal of many tables to the 
companion " Who 's Who Year Book " has kept the work 
within practicable dimensions, although the biographies 
now fill nearly two thousand pages. 

Encouraged by the success which attended the publi- 
cation in the original of Xavier de Maistre's "Voyage 
autour de ma Chambre " in the series of Riverside Press 
Editions, Messrs. Houghton, Mifflin & Co. will shortly 
bring out Bemardin de Saint-Pierre's " Paul et Virginie " 
in the French text of the original first edition. The new 
edition will be set in type of the Didot style, imported 
from Paris, and is to be embellished with reproductions 
of the engAvings in the first French edition. These 
illustrations are not facsimiles, but have been reengraved 
on wood by M. Lamont Brown. The edition is limited 
to 280 numbered copies. 

An important publishing transfer recently effected was 
that whereby Messrs. A. S. Barnes & Co. took over the 
periodical and book business of the United Educational 
Company, formerly E. L. Kellogg & Co. and E. O. 
Vaile. The periodicals include the well-known " Teach- 
er's Magazine," a practical assistant and representative 
of teachers in the primarj-, intermediate, and grammar 
grades throughout the country, published monthly with 
illustrations; "The School Journal," a weekly journal 
presenting new movements in education with special 
reference to intermediate and secondary schools ; " Our 
Times," a weekly journal of current events, for general 
readers, and also adapted for practical school use; and 
" Educational Foundation," a monthly magazine of peda- 
gogy. These periodicals, it will be seen, cover the en- 
tire work from the primary to the end of the secondary 
schools. The large and important list of pedagogical 
books, teachers' helps, supplementary books, and school 
entertainments includes " The Teacher's Library," a se- 
ries of practical professional books for teachers, contain- 
ing over twenty volumes; "The Teacher's Month by 
Month Books," for primary grades; and the "Annual 
School Directories," fifteen in number, founded by 
E. O. VaUe. It is understood that the plans of Messrs. 
Barnes & Co. include many important impravements 
and developments of both the periodicals and the book 
list along approved edxicational lines. 



Topics in IjEAding Periodicai^s. 

March, 1906. 

Agriculture, Scientific. Countess of Warwick. No. American. 
Albright Gallery of Buffalo. Frank Fowler. Seribner. 
Antelope's Protection of Its Young. H. H. Cross. Century. 
Arab Bandits, A Night's Bide with. C. W. Furlong. Harper. 
Art in the Street. Sylvester Baxter. Century. 
Artists, Western, Society of. J. S. Dickerson. World To-day. 
Athletics, Amateur, Commercializing of. World To-day. 
Athletics, What England Can Teach Us in. Rev. of Review*. 
Automobiles for Everybody. H. B. Haines. World's Work. 
Automobilist, Rights of the. John Farson. World To-day. 
Average Man, The, and his Money. World's Wwk. 
Baker, Captain, of Jamaica. E. P. Lyle, Jr. World To-day. 
Birds that Nest in Colonies. W. L. Finley. World To-day. 
Boston. Henry James. North American. 
British Free Trade. Alfred Mosely. Review of Reviews. 
British West Indies, Future of. W. P. Livingstone. No. Amer. 
Buccaneers I Have Known. Lloyd Buchanan. Lippincott. 
Chain Gang — Shall it Go » G. H. Clarke. World To-day. 
Children's Court in American City Life. Review of Reviews. 
China and the Far East. H. P. Judson. World To-day. 
Chinese Boycott, Reason for. C. Chaille-Long. World To-day. 
Chinese Special Mission, The. J. W. Jenks. Rev. of Revieus. 
Colorado Glacier, A. Junius Henderson. Harper. 
Commercial MachiaveUianism. Ida M. Tarbell. McClure. 
Consular Service, Proposed Reorganization of the. No. Amer. 
Denmark, Late King of. Edwin Bjorkman. Rev. of Reviews. 
Earth, Measuring the. Edward Marshall. World To-day. 
Filipino Labor Supply. Greorge H. Guy. Review of Reviews. 
Fletcherism, Growth of. I. F. Marcosson. M'wld's Work. 
France, Anatole. Bradford Torrey. Atlantic. 
Geneva, University of. Charles F. Thwing. Harper. 
German Army, The. William G. FitzGerald. World's Work. 
German Emperor, The. A. Maurice Low. Atlantic. 
Gtermany and U. S., Commercial Relations between. No. Amer. 
Girl's Industrial School of Indianapolis. World To-day. 
Hay, John, .K Friendship with. J. B. Bishop. Century. 
Ibex-Shooting in Baltisan. J. C. Grew. Harper. 
Immigration, Sane Regulation of. Review of Reviews. 
Ingelow, Jean, Recollections of. G. B. Stuart. Lippincott. 
Ireland, Deserted. Plmnmer F. Jones. World To-day. 
Jefferson and " The Rivals." Francis WUson. Seribner. 
Kentucky Cardinal, Ways of the. Jennie Brooks. Harper. 
Labor, Some Equivocal Rights of. George W. Alger. Atlantic. 
Le Braz, Anatole. CarroU Diuiham. Review of Reviews. 
Liberal Policy, The. H. Campbell-Bannerman. World To-day. 
Life Insurance Corruption. "Q. P." World's Work. 
Lincoln Farm, The. Review of Reviews. 
Lincoln, Some Impressions of. E. S. Nadal. Seribner. 
Looking Backward. Clara Morris. McClure. 
Man and Beast. Samuel H. Brory. Atlantic. 
Mani Bible, The Long-Lost. M. Bloomfield. Harper. 
Money Stringency, Cause of the. A. B. Hepburn. No. American. 
Moros, Preparing Our, for Government. R. L. Bullard. A tlantic. 
Navy, Oxu". An American Citizen. North American. 
New York Custom-House, The. Charles De Kay. Century. 
New York Revisited. Henry James. Harper. 
Orange-Growing in California. Bertha M. Smith. World's Work. 
Paris, Housing of Large Families in. Review of Reviews. 
Pittsburg and Erie Barge Canal. W.F. McClure. World To-day. 
Plays, Publication of. Brander Matthews. North American. 
Public Schools, A Lesson for the. Adele M. Shaw. Wm-ld's Work. 
Railroad Freight Rates — A Sidelight. Review of Reviews. 
Railroad, The President and the. Cy Warman. World To-day. 
Red Man's Last Roll-Call. C.M.Harvey. Atlantic. 
Religion, Significant Books of. George Hodges. Atlantic. 
Road, The Flowing. Henry Norman. Seribner. 
Ronmania, The Jews in. Carmen Sylva. Century. 
Round-up, A Day with the. N. C. Wyeth. Seribner. 
Rural Free Delivery, A Rural View of. North Amei-ican. 
Sahara, Three Unarmed Men Cross the. Review of Reviews. 
Shakespeare and the Plastic Stage. John Corbin. Atlantic. 
Shipping Legislation, Pending. W.E.Humphrey. No. Amer. 
Shop-Girl, The. Mary R. Cranston. World To-day. 
Sicily, the Garden of the Sun. William Sharp. Century. 
Soldiers, Pay of Our. Capt. E. Anderson. Review of Reviews. 
Steam Engine's New Rival. F. A. Wilder. World To-day. 
Steel Rail, Anatomy of a. H. C. Boynton, Harper. 
Texas and the Texans. M. G. Cunniff. World's Work. 
Tuberculosis among the Sioux Indians. Review of Reviews. 
Tm^ot, Statesmanship of . Andrew D. White. Atlantic. 
Walpole, Letters of. Gamaliel Bradford, Jr. Atlantic. 
War, Is the United States Prepared for ? North American. 
Wealth, Love of, and Public Service. F. W. Taussig. Atlantic. 
Western Camps, In. Bishop E. Talbot. Harper. 



162 



THE DIAL 



[March 1, 



liisT OF New Books. 



[The following list, containing 47 titles, includes books 
received by The Dial since its last issue.] 

BIOGRAPHY AND REMINISCENCES. 
In the Sixties and Seventies : Impressions of Literary 

People and Others. By Laura Hain FrisweU. Large 8vo, 

gilt top, uncut, pp. 331. Herbert B. Turner & Co. $3.50 net. 
Columbus the Discoverer. By Frederick A. Ober. lUus., 

12mo, pp. 300. "Heroes of American History." Harper & 

Brothers. |1. net. 
The Secret of Heroism : A Memoir of Henry Albert Harper. 

Dlus., 12mo, uncut, pp. 161. Fleming H. Revell C!o. $1. net. 
Josiah Warren, the First American Anarchist : A Sociological 

Study. By William Bailie. With portraits, 16mo, uncut, 

pp. 136. Small, Maynard & Co. 

HISTORY. 

The Jeffersonian System, 1801-1811. By Edward Channing, 
Ph.D. With portrait and maps, 8vo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 300. 
" The American Nation." Harper & Brothers. $2. net. 

Journals of the Continental Conerress, 1774-1789. Edited 
from the original records in the Library of Congress by 
Worthington Chauncey Ford. Vol. IV., Jan. 1-Jime 4, 1776. 
4to, uncut, pp. 416. Government Printing Office. 

GENERAL LITERATURE. 
The Spirit of Rome : Leaves from a Diary. By Vernon Lee. 

12mo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 205. John Lane Co. Sl.50 net. 
The Champag-ne Standard. By Mrs. John Lane. 12mo, 

pp. 314. John Lane Co. $1.50 net. 
Poetry and the Individual : An Analysis of the Imaginative 

Life in Relation to the Creative Spirit in Man and Nature. 

By Hartley Burr Alexander, Ph.D. 12mo, uncut, pp. 240. 

G. P. Putnam's Sons. $1.50 net. 
Mark Twain's Library of Humor. Vol. I., Men and Things. 

Illus., 8vo, pp. 304. Harper & Brothers. $1.50. 

BOOKS OF VERSE. 

The Visionary, and Other Poems. By Christine Siebeneck 
Swayne. 12mo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 52. R. G. Badger. 

Studies in Verse. 12rao, gilt top, pp. 174. Grafton Press. 

When the Lilacs Bloom, and Other Poems. By Julia R. 
Galloway. 12mo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 64. R. G. Badger. 

Hartford : An Epic Poem. By William Colegrove. 12mo, gilt 
top, uncut, pp. 111. R. G. Badger. 

FICTION. 
The Healers. By Maarten Maartens. 12rao, pp. 419. D. Ap- 

pleton & Co. $1.50. 
Randvar the Songrsmlth: A Romance of Norumbega. By 

Ottilie A. Liljencrantz. With frontispiece in color, 12mo, 

pp. 314. Harper & Brothers. $1.50. 
The Jungrle. By Upton Sinclair. 12mo, pp. 413. Doubleday, 

Page & Co. $1.50. 
The Portreeve. By Eden Phillpotts. 12mo, gilt top, pp. 452. 

Macmillan Co. $1.50. 
All that Was Possible. By Howard Overing Sturgis. With 

frontispiece in color, 12mo, pp. 312. G. P. Putnam's Sons. 

$1.50. 
Folly. By Edith Rickert. With frontispiece in color, 12mo, 

gilt top, pp. 368. Baker & Taylor Co. $1.50. 
The Way of an Indian. Written and illus. by Frederic 

Remington. Illus., 8vo, uncut, pp. 252. Fox, Duffleld & Co. 

$1.50. 
Wild Justice. By Lloyd Osboume. Illus., 12mo, pp. 296. 

D. Appleton & Co. $1.50. 
The Sacred Cup. By Vincent Brown. 12mo, pp. 331. G. P. 

Putnam's Sons. $1.50. 
A Lady in Waiting'. By Charles Woodcock Savage. With 

frontispiece, 12mo, pp. 330. D. Appleton & Co. $1.50. 
The Vision at the Savoy. By Winifred Graham. 12mo, 

pp.320. Fleming H. Revell Co. $1.50. 
The Spirit of the Pines. By Margaret Morse. 18mo, uncut, 

pp. 159. Houghton, Mifflin & Co. $1. 
The Struggle. By Sidney C. Tapp, Ph.B. 12mo, pp. 324. 

A. Wessels Co. $1.50. 
The Last Spike, and Other Railroad Stories. By Cy Warman. 

16mo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 286. Charles Scribner's Sons. $1.25. 

THEOLOGY AND RELIGION. 
The Problem of the Old Testament, considered with refer- 
ence to Recent Criticism. By James Orr, D.D. 8vo, uncut, 
pp. 562. Charles Scribner's Sons. $1.50 net. 



What Is Religion P and Other Student Questions : Talks to 
College Students. By Henry S. Pritchett. 16mo, gilt top, 
imcut, pp. 117. Houghton, Mifflin & Co. $1. net. 

Individuality and Immortality. By WilhehnOstwald. 16mo, 
pp. 74. Houghton, Mifflin & Co. 75 cts. net. 

POLITICS. - ECONOMICS. - SOCIOLOGY. 
Five American Politicians : A Study in the Evolution of 

American Politics. By Samuel P. Orth. 16mo, gilt top, 

uncut, pp. 447. Burrows Brothers Co. $2. net. 
The Country Town : A Study of Rural Evolution. By Wilbert 

L. Anderson; with introduction by Josiah Strong. 12mo, 

pp. 307. Baker & Taylor Co. $1. net. 
Efficiency and Relief : A Programme of Social Work. By 

Edward T. Devine, Ph.D. 12mo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 45. 

Macmillan Co. 75 cts. net. 
Justice for the Russian Jew. With portraits, 12mo, pp. 125. 

J. S. Ogilvie Publishing Co. Paper, 25 cts. 

SCIENCE. 
The Nature and Origin of Living Matter. By H. Charlton 

Bastian, M.A. Illus., large 8vo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 344. J. B. 

Lippincott Co. $3.50 net. 
Evolution the Master-Key : A Discussion of the Principle of 

Evolution as Illustrated in Atoms, Stars, Organic Species. 

Mind, Society, and Morals. By C. W. Saleeby, M.D. 8vo, 

gilt top, imcut, pp. 364. Harper & Brothers. $2. net. 
The Life of Reason ; or. The Phases of Human Progress. By 

George Santayana. Vol. V., Reason in Science. 12mo, pp. 320. 

Charles Scribner's Sons. $1.25 net. 

EDUCATION. 
Advanced Algrebra. By Arthur Schultze, Ph.D. 12mo, pp. 562. 

Macmillan Co. $1.25. 
Course of Study in the Eight Grades. By Charles A. Mc- 

Murry, Ph.D. Vols. I. and II., 12mo. Macmillan Co. Per vol., 

75 cts. 
School History of the United States. By Henry William 

Elson. Illus., 12mo, pp. 467. Macmillan Co. 90 cts. 
Deutsches Liederbuch fiir Amerikanische Studenten. Large 

8vo, pp. 157. D. C. Heath & Co. 65 cts. net. 
The Principles of Oral English. By Erastus Palmer and 

L. Walter Sammis. 12mo, pp. 222. Macmillan Co. 60 cts. 
Argumentation and Debate. By Craven Laycock and Robert 

Leighton Scales. 12mo. pp. 361. MacmUlan Co. 60 cts. 
English Grammar for Beginners. By James P. Kinard, 

Ph.D. 12mo, pp. 256. Macmillan Co. 50 cts. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 
Supplementary Papers of the American School of Classical 

Studies in Rome. Vol. I., illus., large 4to, uncut, pp. 220. 

Published for the Archaeological Institute of America by the 

Macmillan Co. 
The Later Work of Titian. Illus. in photogravure, etc., 

large 8vo. " Newnes' Art Library." Frederick Wame & Co. 

$1.25. 



FOR ANY BOOK ON EARTH write to H. H. TIMBV, 

Book Hunter. Catalogues free. Ist Nat. Bank Bldg., Conneaut, O. 



ROnk'^ ALL OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS SUPPLIED. 

tJ\jyjt\-*Jt no matter on what subject. Write us. We can get 
you any book ever published. Please state wants. Catalogue free. 
BAKER'S GREAT BOOK-SHOP, 14-16 Bright St., Bibminoham, Ems. 

WANTFD -^ COMPETENT AND RELIABLE MAN 
TT/HllL,Ly ^^ WOMAN TO RE-WRITE OR REVISE 
BOOK MS. REFERENCES. C. H. KABRICH, Elgin, III. 

STORY-WRITERS, Biographers, Historians, Poets — Do 

—^^^^—^——'—^^— you desire the honest criticism of your 
book, or its skilled revision and correction, or advice as to publication ? 
Such work, said George William Curtis, is " done as it should be by The 
Easy Chair's friend and fellow laborer in letters. Dr. Titus M. Coan." 
Terms by agreement. Send for circular D, or forward your book or MS. 
to the New York Bureau of Revision, 70 Fifth Ave., New York. 

Engraved on Copper, Steel, or Wood 

Antique or Modern Designs. 
Heraldry a Specialty. 

Crests and Coats of Arms. 

ROBERT SNEIDER COMPANY 




143-145 FlTLTON Stkbbt 



NEW YO RK 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



163 



BT A WBITKR STIIX LIVIHG, WHO WAS ON THK SPOT 

JOHN BROWN THE HERO 

Pertonal R'minUffncf*. By J. W. WINKLET, M.D. With an Intro- 

ductioD by Hon. FaAXi: B. Saxborx. lUut'raitd. Cloth, 85 centa ntt, 

poiUge 6 oenU. [Deacriptive circular on requeat.] 

"The little book, 'John Brown the Hero,' has the Talae which 

always attaches to the direct materials of history, — in this case to a 

claar and simple statement of facts highly interesting." — CoL Thoxas 

WlBTWOBTH HlOGDtSOS. 

"Chock full of interest."— ITnUy (Chicago). 
JAMES H. WEST CO. PUBLISHERS BOSTON 



WILLIAM R.JENKINS 

851 and 853 Sixth Avenue (cor. •«8th Street) New York 
So branch floret 



FRENCH 

and other 
foreign 

BOOKS 



READ 01TS 

ROMANS CHOiSIS SERIES 

26 Titles. Paper 60c., cloth 85c. toL 

CONTES CHOISIS SERIES 

24 Titles. Paper 25c. , cloth 40c voL 
Masterpieces, pure, by well-known authors. 
Bead extensirely by classes ; notes in English. 
List, also catalogue of all publications and 
imported books, on application. 



THREE FAST 

California Trains 

daily via the Chicago, Union Pacific & 
North-Western Line, over the only doable 
track railway between Chicago and the 
Missouri River. 

The Overland Umfted 

Fast through electric-lighted train to 
San Francisco and Portland. Most 
luxarious train in the world. Less than 
three days en route. 

Los Angeles Limited 

Electric-lighted through train arriving 
at Los .\ngeles afternoon of the third 
day, via the new Salt Lake Route. 
Entire new equipment. Drawing-Room 
and Tourist Sleeping cars, Composite- 
Observation cars. Dining cars. 

The China & Japan FastMall 

To San Francisco, Los .Angeies and 
Portland without change. Pullman 

Drawing-Room and Tourist 
Sleeping cars. Dining cars. 

For booklets, maps, schedules' 
rates, list of hotels, and descrip- 
tion of limited trains apidjr at 

TICKET OFFICES: 
X 1 X Clark St. Md Walls SI. Sta. 

(T*l. Centrml 721.) 




Ih£ STUDEBAKER 

fint )art0 TSnildtng 

Michigan Boulevard, between Congress and 
Van Bnren Streets, Chicago. 

Beginning March 5 — Second and Last Week of 

The Ben Greet Company 

In Shakespearian Repertoire 



FRANKLIN'S BOYHOOD 

From the Autobiography; Franklin's letters on War and 
Peace and his Plan for Western Colonies are just added 
to the Old South Leaflets, Nos. 161-163. 

No. 9, The Plan of Union, 1754, is 'another Franklin 
leaflet. 

Price, 5 cents a copy. 

Send for complete list$. 



DIRECTORS OF OLD SOUTH WORK 

Old South Meeting House 
WASHINQTON STREET, BOSTON 



Importing Notice 

\X7£ b^ to announce that we have greatly extended 
* * our facilities for the importation of English 
books, so that we now are equipped to fill orders of 
this sort with the greatest efficiency and intelligence. 
Promptness, good service, and low prices will rule 
in this department, as they do in all our bnaneas. 



THE BAKER & TAYLOR CO., whoutau Bookseiur, 

33-37 Bast 17th St.. Union Sq. North. New Yoric 



THE BOOKS 
OF ALL PUBLISHERS 

are carried in our stock, 
which is larger and more 
general than that of any 
other house in the country. 

LIBRARY ORDERS 

given prompt and intelligent 
service. Our large stock 
and extensive library expe- 
rience enables us to give 
valuable aid and advice to 
libraries and librarians. 

CATALOGUE CARDS and 
CARD CABINETS 
We carry a special line and 
will be glad to furnish a 
price list. 

LIBRARY DEPARTMENT 

A. C. McCLURG & CO. 

CHICAGO 



164 



THE DIAL 



[March 1, 1906. 




Fox Duf field & Company 's 
New and Forthcoming Books 



The Eternal Spring 



By NEITH BOYCE 

Author of " The Forerunner," " The Folly of Others." 
" A love story of unusual psychological power is set forth in 
Mrs. Hapgood's third book, ' The Eternal Spring.' The plot 
centres round three women and a man. ... It is unfair to dis- 
close it. Its merit lies in its psychological penetration, its clear- 
cut character delineation, and its charm of literary finish." — The 
Detroit Free Press. 

" Its enduring charm lies in the author's instinctive taste and 
perception." — Chicago Evening Post. 

"Refined, subtle, artistic — a clever piece of fiction, written in a 
style always sympathetic and graceful." — New Tork Evening Sun. 

Illustrated by Blendon Campbell. $1.^0 postpaid. 



The Way of an Indian 



By FREDERIC REMINGTON 

Author of " Men with the Bark On," " Crooked Trails," etc. 

" One of the cleverest books Mr. Remington has ever done. A study of a genuine Indian brave, 

the Red Man as he really was. With fourteen illustrations, including a frontispiece in color, by 

the author. $1-50 postpaid. 

The Ghosts of Their Ancestors 

By WEYMER JAY MILLS, author of " Caroline of Courtlandt Street." 
" A delightful satire on ancestor worship in America. It will make all those unfortunates 
who are not Colonial Dames or members of a Republican aristocracy howl with glee." 

JVith illustrations in color and many decorations in black and white by John Rae. 
$1.25 postpaid. To be published March ji. 

Reminiscences of My Childhood and Youth 

By GEORGE BRANDES. Translated by G. M. FOX-DAVIES 
A delightful book of recollections, whose intrinsic charm is as great as its literary and critica 
importance, which is of the first order. $2.^0 net ; postage additional. Ready in May. 

The Book of Tea 

By OKAKURA-KAKUZO, author of "The Awakening of Japan." 
An interpretation of Japanese character, by one of the most talented of living Japanese. Articles 
in the magazines by Mr. Okakura have excited the widest admiration of his style and peculiar feli- 
city in writing English. What he has to say about Japan is not only well said but worth saying. 

$1.50 net; postage additional. Ready in April, 




FOX DUFFIELD & COMPAT^Y 

a6 EAST 21 B^ STREET NEW YORK 




THS PIAL PBE88, riKS ABT8 BflLDIMO, OHIOAOO 



Spring announcement number 

L u.^^ — :— 



V 



y". 



THE 




^ SEMI-MONTHLY JOURN/iL OF 

Jittrarg Crrtuism, §iscus5ion, anb Information. 



Edited BY \ Volume XL. nTTTf^ \ nCi "M'A"Rr"TT1fi 1 QOA jo c/*. a copy. / Fi>'b Arts BtnLDixo 

FRANCIS F. BROWNE 



\ Volume XL. r'TTTr" KCCi \Jf ^TfCTX 1A 1 QOA lOcU.aeopv. f Fi>'b Arts Bciij)ij.-( 
J Xo.i7i. L.ni^^^ VtU, .iM-AJi^^Jl ID, 1»UD. f^.avear. I 203 Michigan Blvd. 



NEW SCRIBNER BOOKS 



THE OPAL <5EA By JOHN c. van dyke 

■ ■• ^ Vi/l^i^fc- «^ b.J^ With frontispiece. $1.25 net. Postage extra. 

This is a book of ocean beauty seen from the painter's point of view, giving exhaustive 
interpretation of the sea as a gi-eat source and beauty of the world. The book is firmly 
based in scientific discovery and research, but is illuminated at every page by a 
poetical and inspiring sense of the sea's aesthetic quality. 

SID \A#AI TCD QnrfcXT By ANDREW LANG 

I rfc Y¥/^l. I tr* OV^Vy I I Illustrated. $1.00 net. Postage extra. 

This new voluiue in the Literary Lives Series is a brilliant, sympathetic, and accurate 

biography written ^^-ith all of Mr. Lang's skill and charm. 

io<;rPH irFrER<;oN By francis wilson 

^^yj^^t-V^ UCrr^nOV^I^ illustrated. $2.00 net. Postage extra. 

Intimate and delightfid reminiscences of Joseph Jefferson, his conversations, his opinions 
on literature and art — especially the art of the actor, — told by Francis Wilson, the 
well-known actor who was for many years his friend. 

CONCERNING PAUL AND FIAMMETTA By l. allen marker 

$1.25 
With an introduction by Kate Douglas Wiggin. 

The experiences of a group of wholesome, natural, and delightfully amusing children, 

told with great hiunor and charm. 

THF NP\A/ FAR FAQT By THOMAS F. MILLARD 

' "^ ^ l^tTT r^M-fc &A%0 I $1.50 net. Postage extra. 

An illuminating and thought-provoking ejcposition of certain phases of the Far Eastern 

question as it stands to-day, especially in its relation to the United States. Mr. 

Millard's views are most suggestive as concerns Japan. 

EXPERIENCES OF AN AMERICAN By w. b. freer 

TEACHER IN THE PHILIPPINES mustrated. $1.50net Postage extra. 

A A-ivid, clear, and most interesting account of the work of American school-teachers 
in the Philippines. Mr. Freer 's conclusions in regard to the capacity of the Filipino 
for self-government are as valuable as they are interesting. 

THE PROBLEM OF THE OLD TESTAMENT ByjAMEsoRR 

$1.50 net. 
This book won the Bross prize of 86000 at Lake Forest College. " It is the most 
comprehensive compendium of the present state of the discussion regarding the Old 
Testament." — The Watchman. 

THE DEVELOPMENT OF By Frederick j. bliss 

PALESTINE EXPLORATION $1.50net Postageextra 

An able and accurate account of exploration and explorers in Palestine and Syria 
from the earliest times to the present day. 



CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS NEW YORK 



166 THE DIAL [March 16, 



NEW SCRIBNER BOOKS 

FICTION 

THE DAWN OF A TOMORROW 

By FRANCES HODGSON BURNETT 
" Glad's ' cheerfle ' philosophy is sure to become conta^ous. ' If things ain't cheerfle, people's got to be,' and other 
sayings of Mrs. Burnett's quaint little gutter-snipe heroine are likely to pass into common quotation. The story is 
written with all the author's intelligent art for vivid, strong, and dramatic writing, and is a little masterpiece of its 
Mnd."— New York Globe. Illustrated in color. $1.00. 

THE PRISONER OF THE DAY-DREAMER 

ORNITH FARM Being the FuII Narrative of "The stolen 

By FRANCES POWELL, author of "The House on Story" 

the Hudson." By JESSE LYNCH WILLIAMS 

The dramatic story of a unique imprisonment, under ^ dramatic and vivid story of the romance in the life of 

the most remarkable conditions, near New York. The ^ ^^^ ^^^ ^as a newspaper man of action. The love 

unusual characters and the surprising idea of the plot ^^^ ^^^ ^ n^^l political intrigue lead up to a most 

make a startling and yet convincing story. original climax. - , >. 

$l.r)0. •'^1---J- 

BOB AND THE GUIDES THE LAST SPIKE 



By MARY R. S. ANDREWS 



AND OTHER RAILROAD STORIES 



The entertaining adventures of an original small boy and "y *^ ^ W AKMAPs 

a number of grown-up people, which give one of the best " Everyone should know by this time that Cy Wamian 

pictures of camp life in the woods in fiction. can tell a railroad story in the higest style of the art." 
Illustrated. $1.50. $1.25. - Chicago Inter Ocean. 

TO BE PUBLISHED SHORTLY 

SIX STARS THE TOWER 

By NELSON LLOYD By MARY TAPPAN WRIGHT 

Remarkable for the delicious dry humor and delightful A simple yet powerful story of the tragedy, romance, and 

sentiment as well as for the novel structure and ingenious triumph of life in a college town, told with remarkable 

plot of the stories. insight and feeling. 

Illustrated. $1.50. $1.50. 



THE APOSTOLIC AGE IN THE LIGHT OF 
MODERN CRITICISM 

By JAMES HARDY ROPES 
A thoroughly popular and yet authoritative account of the Apostolic Age, the Spread of the Gospel, and the Begin- 
nings of the Christian Church. ^^ 5Q ^^^ . p^gt^ge extra. 

THE REFORMATION PAUL JONES 

Bv CEORCE P FISHER ^^ '^* ^" -^UELL. New edition. With an additional 

chapter by General Horace Porter. 
A new and revised edition of this important and standard rp^-^ additional chapter by General Porter describes tlie 
book, one of the accepted authorities on this period. ^^^^^^i for and discovery of the body of Paul Jones. 

$2.50 net. Illustrated, 2 vols. $3.00. 

GERMAN UNIVERSITIES 

By FRIEDRICH PAULSEN 
Translated by Frakk Thilly and W. W. Elwang 
A systematic account of the nature, organization, and historical development of the German L^niversity. It offers the 
most helpful, practical guide to the solution of University problems ever published. 

$.3.00 net; postage extra. 

CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS NEW YORK 



1906] THE DIAL 167 



HOUGHTON, MIFFLIN & COMPANY'S 

LIST OF SPRING BOOKS 

BOSTON 1906 NEW YORK 



FICTION 



THE MAYOR OF WARWICK By Hkbbkbt M. Hopkins. 

A brilliant novel of contemporary American life. With frontispiece, in color, by Henry Hutt. $1.50. 

THE EVASION By ExroKinA Bbooks Fbothingham. 

A powerful portrayal of society life of to-day, by the author of " The Turn of the Road." $1.50. 

BETWEEN TWO MASTERS By Gamaxikl Bbai>fobd, Jb. 

A vivid and dramatic novel dealing with the twentieth century strugsrle between Ood and Mammon. $1.50. 

THE COURT OF LOVE By Alice Bkown. 

As light as a bubble, irresistible in its comedy, and laughable in its absurd situations and entanglements of modem Ufe. 

THE CLAMMER By William J. Hopkiss. 

A delicate, half-whimsical love story of a witty recluse living by the sea. $1.25. 

A LITTLE SISTER OF DESTINY By Gblett Bubgkss. 

Unusual adventures of an iQdet>endent and attractive New York girl. 

THE SPIRIT OF THE PINES By Mabgabkt Mobse. 

" A bit of delicat« and attractive writing." — Chicago ReeordrHerald. $1.00. 

CALM IRE: Man and Natube. By Henbt Holt. 

A widely discussed novel hitherto published anonymously. (Sixth edition, revised.) $1.50. 

STURMSEE: Man and Man. By Henbt Holt. 

A brilliant piece of fiction instinct with originality and charm. ( Third edition, revised.) $1.50. 



OUTDOOR BOOKS 



THE LOG OF A SEA ANGLER By Chables F. Holdeb. 

Exciting adventure with the big game fishes of America. $1.50 net. Postpaid, $1.63. 

CATTLE BRANDS By Andt Adams. 

Cowboy yams, by the author of " The Log of a Cowboy." etc. $1.50. 

IN THE MARCH AND BORDERLAND OF WALES By A. G. Bbadley. 

Delightful rambles through picturesque England. Fully illustrated. $3.00 net. Postpaid, $3.23. 



ESSAYS 



WHAT IS RELIGION? By Henby S. Pbitchett. 

Five \-igorous, broad-minded addresses to studoits by the President of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
$1X)0 net. Postpaid, $1.07. 

THE COLLEGE MAN AND THE COLLEGE WOMAN By William De Witt Hyde. 

Clear-sighted essays by the President of Bowdoin College on American college life, methods, and ideals. $1.50 net. 
Postpaid. $1.61. 

INDIVIDUALITY AND LMMORTALITY By Wilhelm Ostwald. 

Professor Ostwald, of Leipzig, presents the views of the modem science of physical chemistry, as concerns the 
future life. 75 cents net. Postpaid, 82 cents. 

MORAL OVERSTRAIN By Geobge W. Algeb. 

Direct essays dealing with the existence and treatment of " graft " in modem business and politics. 



OTHER NEW BOOKS 



LINCOLN: MASTER OF MEN By Alonzo Rothschild. 

A keen and brtUiant study emphasizing the keynote of Lincoln's character — his mastery over different types of 
men as well as over himself. With portraits. $3J)0 net. Postage extra. 

WAR GOVERNxHENT : FEDERAL AND STATE By Willl»ji B. Wkkdek. 

A critical study, using Massachusetts, New York, Pennsylvania, and Indiana as examples. 

AMERICAN LITERARY MASTERS By Leon H. Vikcekt. 

Compact, authoritative studies of nineteen American authors. $2.00 net. Postpaid, $2.12. 

THE SUBCONSCIOUS By Joseph Jastbow. 

A distinctive contribution to an interesting phase of descriptive psychology. 

BIRD AND BOUGH By John Bubboughs. 

The first collected edition of Mr. Burroughs's poems of nature. 

THE PERSONALITY OF JESUS By Chables H. Babbows. 

A stimulating and helpful study based on the four Grospels. 

Our RrVEBSlDE Bulletin /or MircA, containing complete announcements of these books, will be mailed, free 
of all charges, to any address on request. 



168 THE DIAL [March 16, 

A. C. McCLURG & CQ.'S SPRING LIST 

Nicanor, Teller of Tales 

By C. Bryson Taylor. With five plates in full color and decorations in tint 
by the Kinneys. Large i2mo, $1.50. 

Well-planned, well-written, and carried out in a broad heroic style, " Nicanor" has the true romantic qualty, 
and the publishers have no hesitation in saying that in strength and interest it is equal, if not superior, to any 
of their previous successes of this especial kind. The action occurs in Britain at the time when the Saxons 
were beginning their inroads u|)on the Romans, and this period has furnished splendid opportunities for bold 
and picturesque treatment by the author and the illustrators. The pictures and decorations by the Kinneys 
are far superior to any of their previous work. 

For the Soul of Rafael 

By Marah Ellis Ryan. With unusual photographic illustrations and decora- 
tions in tint. Large i2mo, $1.50. 

This new book by the author of " Told in the Hills" is certain to have an immediate success. It is a glowing 
and picturesque romance of Old California, with a marked dramatic quality. The characters are all of the 
fine aristocratic Spanish type, at a period when Americans were regarded as godless invaders. It will be 
found a story of strong passions and a splendid renunciation. 

Dick Pentreath 

By Katharine Tynan, author of "The Dear Irish Girl," "Julia," etc. With 
four illustrations in pen-and-ink by George Alfred Williams. Large i2mo, I1.25. 

This new English story has more popular qualities than any of Miss Tynan's many successful novels. She can 
always be counted on for a delightful expression of humor and sentiment which few writers in her field can equal. 

Literature of Libraries 

17th and 1 8th Centuries. Edited by Henry W. Kent, Librarian of the Grolier 
Club, and John Cotton Dana, Librarian of the Newark Public Library. Sold 
only in sets. Regular edition, limited to 250 sets, $12.00 net. Large paper edition^ 
limited to 25 sets, $25.00 net. 

Vol. I. «« Concerning the Duties and Qualifications of a Librarian." Vol. II. "The Reformed Library 
Keeper." A series of six reprints of rare and out-of-print works on libraries and their management. The pri- 
mary object of the series is to bring within the reach of persons interested, and especially of librarians, the early 
authorities on these subjects. The volumes in this series will be beautifully printed at the Merrymount Press. 

The Ghost in Hamlet 

And Other Essays in Comparative Literature. By Dr. Maurice Francis Egan. 
i6mo, $1.00 net. 

As professor of English at the Catholic University of Washington, Dr. Egan is well known both as a 
thorough scholar and a charming writer. The other titles are: Some Phases of Shakespearean Interpretation^ 
Some Pedagogical Uses of Shakespeare; Lyrism in Shakespeare's Comedies; A Definition of Literature; The 
Ebb and Flow of Romance; The Greatest of Shakespeare's Contemporaries; Imitators of Shakespeare; The 
Puzzle of Hamlet. 

Old Tales from Rome 

By Alice Zimmern, author of " Old Tales from Greece." Fully illustrated. 
i2mo, $1.25. 

a popular presentation of some of the famous myths and legends. The book is divided into three parts, the 
first being given to "The W^anderings of ^neas," the second to "Early Days of Rome," and the third to 



" The Transformation. 



A. C. McCLURG & CO. PUBLISHERS CHICAGO 



1906.] THE DIAL 169 

A. C. McCLURG & CO.'S SPRING LIST 



Panama to Patagonia 

The Isthmian Canal and the West Coast Countries of South America. By 
Charles M. Pepper, author of " To-morrow in Cuba." With new maps and 
numerous illustrations. Large 8vo, $2.50 net. 

The author is a distinguished newspaper man who has travelled extensively, especially in the Latin- American 
republics, and who is a member of the Permanent Pan-American Railway Committee. His book aims to 
point out to the American commercial world the enormous advantages coming to this country from South 
America through the construction of the Panama Canal. 

The Glory Seekers 

The Romance of Would-Be Founders of Empire in the Early Days of the South- 
west. By William Horace Brown. Illustrated. Square 8vo, $1.50 net. 

These are tales of the daring adventurers who became notorious as the leaders of filibustering expediuons into 
the region which now forms the State of Texas. The author, William Horace Brown, knows his subject 
and endeavors to present a truthful account, with the statement that "justice and patriotism were not always 
the prompters of their actions." There is no question but that their exploits were dramatic and picturesque, 
and the narrative of them is not only instructive, but makes highly entertaining reading. 

Hawaiian Yesterdays 

By Dr. Henry M. Lyman. With numerous illustrations from photographs. 
Large 8vo, $2.00 net. 

A delightfully written account of what a boy saw of life in the Islands in the early '40's. The author was a 
distinguished Chicago physician, whose father was a well-known missionary in Hawaii. His book is a most 
pertinent description of early conditions in a part of the world in which Americans are becoming more and 
more interested. 

Future Life 

In the Light of Ancient Wisdom and Modern Science. By Louis ELBfe. With 
a portrait. i2mo, $1.20 net. 

This is the authorized translation of the famous book which has been creating so wide a stir in scientific and 
religious circles throughout France, under the title "La Vie Future." It will be received with widespread 
interest here, and will arouse very general discussion. The subject is one which is engaging not only scientists, 
but laymen, in ever-increasing numbers. This volume offers for the first time a complete presentation of all 
the available evidence hitherto to be found only in the most scattered and inaccessible forms. 

Remenyi, Musician and Man 

An Appreciation. By Gwendolyn Kelley and George P. Upton. With 
portraits. 8vo, $1.75 net. 

Miss Kelley was an intimate friend and devoted admirer of the famous Hungarian wizard of the violin, and 
he intrusted to her a number of biographical documents. To these have been added others contributed at 
her solicitation by his personal friends and members of his family, also some of his characteristic letters and 
literary sketches, the whole forming a volume of uncommon charm and a valuable work of reference. 

A. C. McCLURG & CO. PUBLISHERS CHICAGO 



170 THE DIAL [March 16 

LITTLE, BROWN, & COMPANY'S 

MISCELLANEOUS 
THE HEART OF THE RAILROAD b, p„,_, pbank paesons, Ph.D.. 

PROBLEM Author of ' ' The City for the People.' * etc. 

This book reveals the facts in regard to railway favoritism and unjust discrimination. 12mo, cloth. $1.50 net. 

THE FIGHT FOR CANADA By Major william wood. 

Major Wood places the entire campaign of the fight for Canada on a new historical footing. With portraits, colored 
maps, and bibliography. 8vo, cloth. $2.50 net. 

THE ECONOMY OF HAPPINESS By jamis mackaye. 

The present work seeks to transfer the foundation of economics from wealth to happiness ; thus substituting utilita- 
rianism for commercialism and making ethics instead of the arbitrary traditions of political economy the foundation 
of public polity. Small 8vo, cloth. $2.50 net. 

TRTT TIP TO HATF \VATTPPCiC; By JANET McKENZIE HILL, 

1 r:!!:/ \J r- L KJ-LJI\ J. n, \\ I\L l I\COO Author of "Salads, Sandwiches, and Chafing Dish Dainties," etc. 

A book of inestimable value in every household where a table girl is employed. With numerous illustrations in 

half-tone. 12mo, cloth. $1.50 net. 

THUNDER AND LIGHTNING Af.L?^i^oplfLt^fo^,T.I^: 

An exceedingly entertaining book by the g^at French astronomer. Illustrated. 12mo, cloth. $1 .25 net. 

PETRARCH'S ''TRIUMPHS." Special Limited Issue. Translated by henry boyd. 

Printed from Humanistic type made especially for the edition. Send for special circular. 

THE GAME OF BRIDGE By fisher amis. 

A popular treatise on " bridge," to which have been added the laws of the game. lOmo, cloth. $ 1 .00 net. 

PRACTICAL ROWING WITH SCULL 

AND SWEEP By ARTHUR W. STEVENS. 

An invaluable handbook on rowing ; with chapters on " The EfiPects of Training," by Eugene A. Darling, M.D. 
With diagram and 16 illustrations. 16mo, cloth. $ 1 .00 net. 

THE BOOK OF DANIEL AND MODERN 

CRITICISM By Rev. CHARLES H. H. WRIGHT, D.D, 

A series of lectures in which Daniel and his Prophecies are considered in relation to Modem Criticism. 

8vo, cloth. $2.50 net. 

CENTRALIZATION AND THE LAW By melvh^le m. bigelow, and others. 

Six lectures delivered at the Boston University Law School as part of the plan of legal extension now on foot there. 

12mo, cloth. $1.50 net. 

FICTION 
CALLED TO THE FIELD , ..^^ l^^Z f.^'^'^^TT' 

'-'-"-"^ Author of A Girl of Virginia," etc. 

The story of a young married Virginia girl at the outbreak of the Civil War. 12mo, cloth. $1.50. 

SANDPEEP * By SARA e. boggs. 

A charming story of the Maine coast. Illastrated by May Bartlett. 12mo, cloth. $ 1 .50. 

KENELM'S DESIRE By hughes Cornell. 

A strong, vital, human romance with the hero an Alaska Indian. 12mo, cloth. $1.50. 



PUBLISHED BY LITTLE, BROWN, & COMPANY 



1906] THE DIAL 171 

NEW SPRING PUBLICATIONS 

FICTION— Continued 
ON THE FIELD OF GLORY ^^ T^'^^^^^'SS^?- 

Author of Quo Vadis," etc 
Aathorized translation from the Polish by Jeremiah Cartin. 

" Other novels seem jniceless, and otiber heroes bloodless, after reading ' On the Field of Glory.' " — The Independatt, 
New York. 12mo, cloth. $1.50. Third Printing. 

A MAKER OF HISTORY . ^; VT^ ^r"^^^- 

Author of The Master Mmnmer," etc. 
" By far the best work of this deyer author." — Chicago Daily News. 

Dlnstrated. 12mo, doth. $1.50. Third Printing. 

THE SAGE BRUSH PARSON By a, b. ward. 

A story of a Nevada mining camp irith a hero " whose fortones and adventnres hold one's unflagging interest," says 
The Nation. 12mo, cloth. $1.50. Fifth Printing. 

MATH OP ATHT?MQ By LAFAYETTE McLAWS. 

lyxr^L LJ \jr n. X r:i IZ/l-N a Author of " when the Land Was Young," etc 

A highly romantic novel dealing with Lord Byron's career in Greece. Illustrated by Harry C. Edwards. 

12mo, cloth. $1.50. 

HEARTS AND CREEDS Author of -On'the Firing Line." etc 

A romance of Quebec, dealing with the marriage of a Protestant girl with a Catholic. Illustrated by Alice Barber 
Stephens. 12mo, doth. $1.50. 

TWF WTRPT TAPPTTPQ By ARTHUR STRINGER. 

^ '^^ VVlIVll, LIXrrCjXKO Author of "The silver Poppy," etc 

A remarkable story in which the hero and heroine become by force of circamstanoes associated with the pool-room 
wiretapper. Illustrated by Arthur William Brown. 12mo, cloth. $1.50. 

THE DISTRICT ATTORNEY A..,,.,of-^,^?S^l"^ 

A story of American political life of the present day. 12mo, cloth. $1 .50. 

THE WOLF AT SUSAN'S DOOR Authfr^of^^a^?"^' 

Another inimitable three-part Susan degg story to which has been added " Mra. Lathrop's Love Affair." With 
frontispiece. 12mo, cloth. $1.00. 

TRUTH DEXTER— Illustrated Edition Author of -^c^BrJJSIf the Gods." 

With a series of eight striking and sympathetic pictures in tint by Alice Barber Stephens. 12mo, cloth. $1.50. 

OLD WASHINGTON By harrutt prescott spofford 

Delightful stories of the National Capital just after the doae of the Civil War. With frontispiece by George Alfred 
Williams. 12mo, cloth. $1.50. 

A MILLIONAIRE OF YESTERDAY 

THE MAN AND HIS KINGDOM By k phhjjps oppenhedl 

New editions of two of Mr. Oppenheim's earlier successes. Each is fully illustrated. 12mo, doth. Each, $1.50. 

POPULAR EDITIONS OF RECENT FICTION i2mo,cioth. Each, 75 cents. 

PAXNTED SHADOWS, By Richakd Lb Galsjxss^ THE SIEGE OF YOLT^ By Fkancbs Chaklbs. 

THE VIKING'S SKLTX, By Johk R. Cakuwg. HASSAN, A FELLAH, By Hxnby Guamax. 

SARAH TULDON, By Obme Aghus. THE WOLVERINE, By Axekbt L. Lawkkkcb. 

NO. 254 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON, MASS. 



172 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



Botft), i^eati 61 Company's 

S)pnng ^nUitatione 





JFiction 



WHAT HAPPENED 
TO PAM 



By BETTINA VON HUTTEN, author of " Pam," " Our 
Lady of the Beeches," " He and Hecuba." Illustrations 
by B. Martin Justice. 12mo, cloth, $1.50 



COWARDICE COURT 



By GEORGE BARB McCUTCHEON, author of «Grau- 
stark," "Beverly of Graustark," « Nedra," « The Day of the 
Dog," etc. With illustrations in color by Harrison Fisher, 
and decorations by T. B. Hapgood. 12mo, cloth, $1.25 



BARBARA WINSLOW, 
REBEL 



By ELIZABETH ELLIS. 

" A frankly romantic story, buoyant, eventful, and in matters of 
love exactly what the heart could desire." — New York Sun. 
Full-page illustrations and decorations by John Rae. 

12mo, cloth, SI. 50 



THE PATRIOTS 



By CYRUS TOWNSEND BRADY, author of « The South- 
erners," " For Love or Country," " My Lady's Slipper," etc. 
With illustrations, in two colors, by Walter H. Everett. 

12mo, cloth, $1.60 



A MOTOR CAR 
DIVORCE 



A LAME DOG'S 
DIARY 



THE HILL 



THE SCHOLAR'S 
DAUGHTER 



By LOUISE CLOSSER HALE. This clever story has 
been running serially in The Bookman. With 36 illustra- 
tions, 10 of which are in color, by Walter Hale. 

12mo, cloth, $1,50 



By S. MacNAUGHTAN, author of « The Fortune of Chris- 
tina Macnab," "Selah Harrison," etc. 12mo, cloth, $1.50 



By HORACE VACHELL, author of "John Charity," 
« Brothers," etc. 12ino, cloth, $1.50 



By BEATRICE HARRADEN, author of " Ships that Pass 
in the Night," " The Fowler," " Katherine Fensham," etc. 
With illustrations and decorations, and printed in two colors. 

12mo, cloth, $1.50 



THE GIRL WITH THE 
BLUE SAILOR 



By BURTON EGBERT STEVENSON, author of " The 
Holladay Case," " The Marathon Mystery," etc. Illustra- 
tions and decorations. 12mo, cloth, $1.50 



THE VICAR OF 
BULLHAMPTON 



By ANTHONY TROLLOPE, author of " Orley Farm," 
etc. This is the second of the series of " The Manor House 
Novels." Two volumes. 12mo, cloth, $2.50 



MY SWORD FOR 
LAFAYETTE 



By MAX PEMBERTON, author of "The Garden of 
Swords," « Pro Patria," " Beatrice of Venice," etc. Fully 
illustrated. 12mo, cloth, $1.50 



1906.] 



THE DIAI. 



17a 



S)prtn3 i^uftlications 





!&j]B!torp anD IBiograptp 



AMERICANS OF 1776 



By JAMES SCHOULEB, author of " History of the United States." 
" Eighty Years of Union," etc. An oricrinal study of life and manners 
of the Revolutionary Period. 12mo, cloth, net, $2.00 



JACQUES CARTIER 
SIEUR DE LIMOILOU 



By JAMES PHINNEY BAXTEB, A.M., Litt.D. A Memoir of Cartier, 
His Voyage to the St. Lawrence, a Bibliography, and a Facsimile of 
the Manuscript of 15*4, with Annotations, etc. With numerous fac- 
simile maps and other illustrations. To be issued in two forms : 

Japan pajier edition, limited to 35 copies. Special net, $20.00 
Regular edition, limited to 300 copies. Special net, $10.00 



THE DECLARATION OF 
INDEPENDENCE: Its History 



By J. H. HAZLETON. A thorough and painstaking history of the 
great document by an authority. 

Illustrated, 8vo, cloth, probably net, $1.50 



GEORGE ELIOT 



By A. T. QUTLLER-COUCH, author of " The Splendid Spur," " la," 
" The Ship of Stars," etc. The eighth volume of the " Modem Rngliwh 
Writers" series. 12mo, cloth, net, $1.00 



^i0cellaneou0 15ook9i 



RUBAIYAT OF AN 
AUTOMOBILE 



By CAROLYN WELLS, author of " Idle Idyls," " Patty Fairfield," 
etc. Illustrations by F. Strothmann. An amnaing parody of " Omar " 
in Miss WeUs's best vein. 12mo, cloth, net, $1.00 



HOLLAND DESCRIBED 
BY GREAT WRITERS 



By ESTHER SINGLETON, author of "London Described by Great 
Writers," etc. Fiilly illustrated in the style of her " London " and 
" Paris." 8vo, cloth, net, $1.60 



THE KEY OF THE 
BLUE CLOSET 



By W. ROBERTSON NICOLL, author of " Letters on Life," etc. A 
volume of clever and convincing essays on life, books, and affairs. 

12mo, cloth, net, $1.40 



MAGAZINE ARTICLES 
I HAVE READ 



By BURTON EMMETT. A volume for records of magazine articles 
read, arranged with blanks and with index. 12mo, cloth, net, $1.00 



THE LAUNCHING OF 
A UNIVERSITY 



By DANIEL COIT OILMAN, LL.D. 
topics educational and historical. 



Elssays and addresses on various 
8vo, cloth, net, $2.50 



HOW TO PREPARE 
FOR EUROPE 



By H. A. QUERBER, author of " Legends of Switzerland," " Stories 
of the Wagner Operas," etc. Illustrations, maps, tables, etc. 

12mo, cloth, net, $2.00 



FAMOUS INTRODUCTIONS 
TO SHAKESPEARE'S PLAYS 



By the notable editors of the XVm. Century. Edited, with a critical 
introduction, biographical and explanatory notes, by BEVERLEY 
WARNER, D.D., author of " English History in Shakespeare's Plays," 
etc. 12mo, cloth, net, $2.50 



THE ART OF 
KEEPING WELL 



Common Sense Hygiene for Adults and Children. By CORDELIA A. 
GREENE, M.D. 12mo. cloth, net, $1.25 



THE ART OF 
ORGAN BUILDING 



By GEORGE ASHDOWN AUDSLEY, author of " Keramic Arts of 
Japan," etc. 2 vols., 4to, about 500 pages each, numerous illustrations, 
cloth, limited to 1000 sets. Special net, $20.00 

Edition de Luxe, limited to 250 copies, each copy to be numbered and 
signed by the author. Special net, $35.00 



THE HAPPY CHRIST 



By HAROLD BIQBIE, author of " The Story of Baden Powell," etc. 

16mo, cloth, net, $1.00 



JOYZELLE AND 
MONNA VANNA 



By MAURICE MAETERLINCK, author of " The Life of the Bee," etc. 
First English translation in book form of the play " Joyzelle," and 
the authorized version of " Monna Vanna." 12mo, cloth, net, $1.40 



174 THE DIAL [March 16, 



PUTNAM'S NEW BOOKS 

<'In balance of judgment and proportion of interest there is no history so helpful." — The Congregationalist. 

A History of England 

FROM THE EARLIEST TIMES DOWN TO THE YEAR 1815 

Written by various authors under the direction and editorship of C. W. C. OMAN, Deputy Chichelc 
Professor of Modern History in the University of Oxford, author of "The Art of War in the Middle 
Ages," "A History of the Peninsular War," etc. 

To be in six 'volumes, 8'vo. Cloth. Each, net, ^j.oo. Three volumes noiu ready. 

II. England under the Normans and Angevins, 1066-1272. By H. W. C. Davis. 

IV. England under the Tudors, 1485-1603. By Arthur D. Innes. 

V. England under the Stuarts, 1603-17 14. By G. M. Trevelyan. 

'< Will take a high and permanent place in the literature of its subject. Not so much a history in the ordinary sense 

of the word as a .sustained and luminous commentary upon history; high toned and impartial."— TA^ Athenaum. 

"A tour de force for mastery of the subject and vigor of treatment." — Joseph Jacobs in N. T. Times. 

Send for Full Descriptive Circular. 

The Development of the European Nations— 1870-1900 

By J. HOLLAND ROSE 
Two volumes, large 8'vo, ivith maps. Each, net, $2.30. 
A discussion by a scholar of authority of those events which had a distinct formative influence upon the devel- 
opment of European States during the latter part of the nineteenth century, a period remarkable because of the 
great progress made by the people of Europe in their effort to secure a large measure of political freedom for 
the individual, and the legitimate development of the nation. 

American Political History-1 763-1876 

By ALEXANDER JOHNSTON 
Edited and Supplemented by James Albert Woodburn, Professor of History and Political Science, Indiana 
University; author of "The American Republic," "Political Parties and Party Problems in the United 
a es, etc. y^ ^,^^ 'volumes. 8'vo, cloth. Each, net, $2.00. {Each complete in itself and indexed.) 

1. The Revolution, the Constitution, and the Growth of Nationality, 1763-1832. 

2. The Slavery Controversy, Secession, Civil War, and Reconstruction, 18 20-1 8 76. 
"The author presents in a compact but very readable narrative a consecutive political history of the United 
States. The work has been extremely well done in a most valuable hand book for readers and students." 

— Buffalo Commercial. 
"Deals with important epochs and distinctive features in an orderly manner and with unique ability." 

— Hartford Courant. 

NEW EDITION NOW KEADY 

The Life of Charles Lamb 

By E. V. LUCAS, editor of the "Works and Letters of Charles and Mary Lamb." 
2 'volumes. 8'vo. jo illustrations. Net $6.00. 
'* A perfect book about Charles Lamb, his sister and his friends. ... A biography which for its comprehen- 
siveness as a record, its store of anecdote, its sympathetic tone, and its winning style, promises to rank as a 
classic." — Neiju York Tribune. 

At all Booksellers G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS New York & London 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



175 



PUTNAM'S NEW BOOKS 



Life in the Open 



SPORT WITH ROD, HORSE, AND HOUND IN SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 
Bj CHARLES F. HOLDER, author of "The Big Game Fishes," "Log of a Sea Angler," etc. 
With g2 full-page illustrations. Large 8 vo. Net $■4.00. 
Mr. Holder has ridden, driven, sailed, tramped, fished, and shot over every foot of the forest and sea, plain 
and mountain, which he describes so picturesquely and with such keen delight. His book is a chronicle of 
sporting experiences that carries along with it a good deal of exciting narrative and a considerable amount of 
interesting information in regard to social life, as well as the flora and fauna of the country he loves so well. 



The Connecticut River 

And the Valley of the Connecticut River 
Historical and Descriptive 

By EDWIN M. BACON, author of "Historic 
Pilgrimages in New England," etc. 
Svo. If'ith about loo illustrations. Net, $3 -SO. 
Uniform -ivitA • ' The Hudson River. " ' 
From ocean to source every mile of the Connecticut is 
crowded with reminders of the early explorers, of the 
Indian wars, of the struggle of the Colonies, and of 
the quaint, peaceful village existence in the early days 
of the Republic. Beginning with the Dutch discov- 
ery, Mr. Bacon traces the interesting movements and 
events which are associated with this chief river of 
New England. 



In Thamesland 

Cruises and Rambles through England from the 
Sources of the Thames to the Sea 

By HENRY WELLINGTON WACK, F.R.G.S., 
author of "The Congo Free State," "Victor 
Hugo and Juliette Drouet," etc. 

Crotvn 8vo. 
ffith about loo illustrations and a map. 

A book literally packed with historic and roman- 
tic associations which adorn the story of the great 
little English river. It is indispensable company in 
boat, trap, and automobile, and to all travellers in 
the region most characteristic of English life and 
manners. 



Reminiscences of Bishops and Archbishops 

By HENRY CODMAN POTTER, Bishop of New York. 
8-vo. Illustrated. 
As Secretary of the House of Bishops, and during his long episcopate. Bishop Potter has been the associate 
and friend of a group of singularly interesting men. In his own easy and graceful manner he has recorded 
illuminating anecdotes and experiences connected with famous bishops. These reminiscences are very human 
and personal and reveal the men themselves under their vestments. Bishop Potter has done more than write 
a charming book; he has performed a genuine ser^'ice in preserving these intimate memories of distinguished 
prelates, and some of the memoirs which his readers will find most precious concern himself. 

From a College Window 

By ARTHUR C. BENSON (T. B.) 
Fellow of Magdalene College, Cambridge, author of "The Upton Letters," etc. 
Cronx'n 8vo. Net, $1.25. 
A collection of familiar essays in which the reader is brought again under the spell of the sing^ularly interesting 
and attractive personality that made itself known in The Upton Letters. This latest book is a frank outpouring 
of the author's intimate thoughts, a frank expression of what he prizes in life, and what he expects from life. 
Mr. Benson's papers are characterized by the intimacy of self-revelation, the allusiveness, and sense of over- 
flow that belong to the familiar essay at its best. 

Mr. Benson's The Upton Letters, by its charm and distincrion of style, its acute reflections upon books and 
life, and its tone of cultured amenity, won at once the praise of the judicious, and is meeUng with a steadily 
increasing appreciation. 



At all Booksellers G. P. PUTNAM'S SONS New York & London 



176 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



^ome important Harper publications 



THE AMERICAN NATION 

A HISTORY, in 27 volumes. Edited by ALBERT BUSHNELL HART, Professor of History, Harvard University. 



Vol. XL 1789-1801 

THE FEDERALIST 

SYSTEM 

By John Spbnser Bassbtt, Ph.D., 
Professor of History, Trinity Col- 
lege, N. C. 



RECENT VOLUMES 

Vol. XII. 1801-1811 

THE JEFFERSONIAN 

SYSTEM 

By Edward Channing, Ph.D., 
Professor of History, Harvard Uni- 
versity. 



Vol. Xni. 1811-1819 

RISE OF AMERICAN 

NATIONALITY 

By Kendrick Charles Babcock, 
Ph.D., President of University of 
Arizona. 



Each volume with Maps. Library Edition, $S.OO net ; University Edition, $2 00. 

THE PRINCIPLES OF MONEY AND BANKING 

By CHARLES A. CONANT 

" I know of no other work in which these principles are more clearly set forth or more conveniently and 
logically arranged, and it is a real and valuable contribution to the literature on the subject to have such 
sound views presented in such a readable and convenient form for the student. I have a great many 
inquiries for literature on this subject, and for a list of the best books to read, by students of monetary sci- 
ence, and I should consider no list at all complete which does not include Mr. Conant's new work." — Hon. 
Wm. Barret Ridgely, Comptroller of the Currency, Washington, D. C. Two Volumes. Per Set, $^.00 net. 

HEROES OF AMERICAN HISTORY 



COLUMBUS 
By FREDERICK A. OBER 

The career of the great explorer is followed in detail 
and his personality set forth with striking clearness. 
Mr. Ober, under a commission from the United States 
government, has sought out what vestiges of the early 
settlements remain in the West Indies. These researches, 
together with his visits to Spain, have thrown much new 
and valuable light on Columbus's career, which is here- 
with presented. Illustrated. Price •$1.00 net. 



CORTES 
By FREDERICK A. OBER 

The exploits of Cortes, the conqueror of Mexico, read 
like a romance. How this adventurer, a bankrupt Cuban 
planter, with a band of five hundred imtrained soldiers, 
fought and intrigued his way to absolute power is the 
story told in this volume. Mr. Ober is a well-known 
authority on Spanish and Mexican history and an author 
of distinction in his chosen field. 

Illustrated. Price $1.00 net. 



A HISTORY OF OUR OWN TIMES 

By JUSTIN McCarthy 

In these new volumes (IV. and V.) Justin McCarthy carries his admirable history to completion, from 
Queen Victoria's Diamond Jubilee to the accession of Edward VII. The author, widely known as an 
historian and scholar, is especially happy in his portraiture of the various statesmen, reformers, authors, 
and scientists whose lives figure prominently in the times of which he writes. " This is one of the very few 
histories that deserve place also as literature." — Pittsburg Press. 

Vols. IV. and V. {Uniform with Vols. I. -1 1 1.). Illustrated. Price $1.^0 net each. 

AMERICAN DIPLOMACY : Its Spirit and Achievement 

By JOHN BASSETT MOORE 

" The author's skillful mode of treatment has given a continuity to the topics with which he deals, and has 
brought out in a really surprising way, the marked success, the good faith, and the fine and high purposes 
which have marked the foreign policy of the United States. He is to be congratulated on the production 
of an accurate, impartial, and thoroughly readable book, which, I hope, will have the success it so entirely 
deserves." — Hon. George L. Rives, formerly Assistant Secretary of State. Illustrated. Price $2 00 net. 



EVOLUTION THE MASTER-KEY 

By C. W. SALEEBY, MD. 

Dr. C. W. Saleeby's new volume shows how the law of evolution has grown in authority since the time of 
Herbert Spencer, and how the results of modern investigation point more and more to evolution as the 
master-key to the solution of all problems of phenomena. Dr. Saleeby's comment on the newest phases of 
the great scientific questions makes an interesting and readable book. 



HARPER & BROTHERS PUBLISHERS NEW YORK 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



177 



SPRING IN BOOKLAND 



The True Andrew Jackson 

By CYRUS TOWNSEND BRADY 

Illiiatrated. 8vo. Cloth, $2.00 net. 
Half Levant, $5.00 net. 



Heroes of Discovery in 
America 

By CHARLES MORRIS 

Illustrated. 12mo. 
Cloth, $1.25 net. Postasre extra. 

The Nature and Origin of 
Living Matter 

By H. CHARLTON BASTIAN, M.A.,M.D. 
8vo, Cloth, $3.50 net. 



Mr. Brady has been studying the career of our seventh Presi- 
dent for many years, and his book is a notable gathering of 
evidence in the way of opinions and viecdotes traced back 
to authentic sources. 

An extended chronology of Jackson's life is prefixed to 
the volume, and an appendix embraces papers of historical 
importance mentioned in the text. 

History has nothing more interesting than the stories of the 
great discoverers of the world, and the discovery and explor- 
ation of America furnish the most remarkable examples of 
adventure, hairbreadth escapes, and thrilling incidents. This 
book occupies a field which has never before been at once so 
fiiUy and popularly worked. 

Dr. Bastian, in this important work, holds that from the 
earliest stages of the earth's history up to the present time 
new beginnings of simplest forms of life have been constantly 
taking place all over the earth. 

The book is so lucidly written It can be read with ease 
and pleasure by anyone, especially with the help of its beau- 
tiful illustrations. 



The Fall of Tsardom 



By CARL JOUBERT 

8vo. Cloth, t2.00 net. 



This timely work describes the latest phases of the process 
of disintegration which drives the Russian people, whether 
intellectual or moujik, to seek relief from Tsardom in con- 
stitutional reform. 



NEW FICTION 



The Angel of Pain 

By E. F. BENSON 



12mo. Cloth, $1.50. 



"A remarkable book." — Chicago Tribune. 
"It is the strongest and at the same time the most delicate 
story the author of 'Dodo' has yet written." — Cleveland 
Plain Dealer. 



Vanity Square 

By EDGAR SALTUS 

12£no. Decorated Cloth, $1.26. 

Adventures of a Supercargo 

By LOUIS BECKE 

12mo. Decorated Cloth, $1.50. 



A love story in which a disappearance is involved, affording 
complications that make the mystery peculiarly baffling. 

" For sheer cleverness no American novelist surpasses 
Edgar Saltus." — Netu York Herald. 

The newest of those stirring stories of adventure in the South 
Seas which have given Mr. Becke indisputable title to first 
place among historians and romancers of that wildest portion 
of the world. 



The Wife of the Secretary 
of State 

By ELLA MIDDLETON TYBOUT 

Illxistrated. 12mo. Cloth, $1.50. 



Second Edition of this thrilling romance of Diplomatic 
Washington Life. 

"Adventure and excitement in every paragraph and the 
action is as rapid and fascinating as the most jaded novel- 
reader could require." 



LIPPINCOTT'S MAGAZINE is a high-class monthly of intense, clean, human interest. 

Look up the current issue on the news-stand. 



J. B. LIPPINCOTT COMPANY 



PUBLISHERS 



PHILADELPHIA 



178 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



FIONA MACLEOD 

(WILLIAM SHARP) 

THE MOUNTAIN LOVERS: A Novel i2mo, $1.50 

THOMAS HARDY'S COUNTRY 

THE WESSEX OF THOMAS HARDY. By BERTRAM WINDLE. With nearly one 
himdred illustrations, maps, etc., by Edmund H. New. 12mo, .1^1.50 net; postage extra. 

THE CLEANSING OF THE LORDS. A Novel 

By HAROLD WINTLE. A Romance of the English Senate and the Western Ivory Trust. 12mo, -f 1.50. 

The CHAMPAGNE STANDARD 

By MRS. JOHN LANE. 12mo, !!?1.50; postage, 12 cents. 

" It is not often that the reviewer comes upon essays as amusing as these." — New York Tribune. 
"Mrs. John Lane, having been brought up in this country and having lived in England, is in a position to view 
British society as an American and American society as a Londoner. The reside is a very entertaining book." 

— New York Evening Sun. 



THE ROYAL INSTITUTE OF PAINTERS IN WATER COLORS 

Special Number of the International Studio. Forty Color Plates. 

An Account of the Institute by A. L. BALDRY. Limited Edition. No Reissue. 

4to, wrappers, $2.00 net; cloth, $3.00 net; postage, 35 cents. 



COINS 
Of Ancient Sicily 

By G. F. HILL, M.A., Department of Coins, British 
Museum ; Author of " Handbook of Greek and 
Ronaan Coins," etc. With 16 collotype plates, 80 
illustrations in text, and a map. 

4to, .>i7.")0 net ; postage, 28 cents. 



Selections from the Poetry of 

JOHN PAYNE 

Made by TRACY and LUCY ROBINSON. With 
an introduction by LucY Robinson. Photogravure 
frontispiece portrait. 8vo, $2..50 net ; postage, 14 cents. 
" No lover of poetry can afford to remain unfamiliar with 
Mr. Payne's fine original verse. 'A true poet.' " 

— Providence Jowtial. 



THE COMING OF LOVE 

RHONA BOSWELL'S STORY AND OTHER POEMS 

SEVENTH AND ENLARGED EDITION 
By THEODORE WATTS-DUNTON. 12mo. Photogravure Frontispiece. $2.00 net; postage, 10c. 



THE LIFE OF 
ST. MARY MAGDALEN 

Translated from the Italian of an unknown XFV. 
century writer, by VALENTINA HAWTREY. With 
an introduction by Veknon Lee. 

12nio, $1.50 net ; postage, 14 cents. 
Fourteen full-page reproductions from Old Masters. 



THEODORE 
LESCHETIZKY 

By A. HULLAH 
A concise biography of the famous musician, with 
many new portraits, etc. 

12mo, $1.00 net ; postage, 8 cents. 



JOHN LANE COMPANY, NEW YORK 



SEND FOR NEW CATALOGUE 



THE BODLEY HEAD. 67 FIFTH AVENUE 




1906.] 



THE DIAL 



179 



The Wheel of Life 

By ELLEN GLASGOW 

" A rare novel. ... A book which coold come only from 
one who was 'a novelist by the gift of God and the grace of 
nature.' " — St. Paul Dispatch. 



A great success 

2d printing. 
($1..50.) 



The only book on life 
insurance which treats 
a policy as merchandise. 

How to Buy 
Life Insurance 

By "Q. P." 

Written in words simpler than 
your policy. 

($1.30 postpsud.) 



The Lady 

and the 

Ladder 



The world's 
Cook Book 
is 



The unforgettable book of 1906 

The Jungle 

By UPTON SINCLAIR 

A novel of Packingtown, Chicago 



Thomas Wentworth Higginson says: "It 
comes nearer than any book yet published 
among us to being the 'Uncle Tom's 
Cabin' of the social tragedy of our great 
cities." 

($1.50.) 



By HARRISON 
GARFIELD 
RHODES 

A sparkling and exceedingly 
amusing picture of modem 
"high society," telling the 
experiences of "Mary," the 
interesting American widow, 
in mounting the social ladder. 

Illustrated by Axdebsoh. 

m.oo.) 



The International 
Cook Book 

By ALEXANDER FILIPPINI 

Formerly of Delmonico't. 
AtUhor of "The Table." 

Nearly 3500 receipes — rare and deliciously original 
dishes drawn from the author's wide experience and 
years of travel here and abroad. 



Washable bindings. 

Net $4.80. 
(Postage, 48 cents.) 



Letters and 
Recollections of 
George 
Washington 

A revelation of the home life 
at Mount Vernon. Uniform 
with "Recollections and Let- 
ters of General Robert £. Lee." 

Illustrated. 

($2.75 postpaid.) 



Recollections of 
Thirteen Presidents 

By JOHN S. WISE 

Author of "The Lion's Skin," "The End 
of an Era," etc. 

Mr. Wise is a bom raconteur. In this volume he gives 
most intimate and interesting glimpses of our presi- 
dents, from John Tyler down to Theodore Roosevelt. 



® 



DOUBLEDAY. PAOE & CO- NEW YORK. 



16 portraits. 

Net $2.50. 

(Postage 25 cents.) 



180 



THE DIAL 



[Marcli 16, 




SOME FEBRUARY BOOKS ISSUED BY 

Henry Holt & Company 

29 West 23d Street NEW YORK 

NATURE AND HEALTH Dr. edwaiTd curtis. 

By this well-known New York physician on the care of the 
body and the home. ($1.25 net. By mail, $1.37.) 

"A capital popular treatise on hygiene. ... He knows 
his subject thoroughly, and he knows how to make it clear 
to the general reader. A great variety of important topics 
are touched upon, and in every instance the exposition is 
plain, concise, and as thorough as possible under the cir- 
cumstances. ... A thoroughly moderate spirit. . . . Full of 
excellent advice."— iVew York Evening Sun. 

GEOLOGY. Vols. 11. and III. By Prof. thomas 

C. CHAMBERLAIN and Prof. ROLLIN D. SALISBURY. 
These concluding volumes of this monvmiental Geology are 
devoted to " Earth History," and in them Professor Cham- 
berlain elaborates his weighty criticism of the nebular 
hypotheses. (With some 575 illustrations. 692 + 624 pp., 
8vo, $8.00 net, for both volumes — not sold separately.) 

HEREDITY IN ROYALTY 

By Dr. FREDERICK ADAMS WOODS. 
An interesting and handsome book, based on a consideration 
of some 3300 persons, presenting an interesting estimate of 
the mental and moral status of all Modem Royal families, 
and illustrated with over one hundred portraits. 
(312 pp., 8vo, $3.00 7iei. By mail, $3.18.) 

IMMIGRATION and its Effects upon the 
United States 

By PRESCOTT F. HALL, Secretary of the Immigration 

Restriction League. 
In the important new series, " American Public Problems," 
edited by Ralph Curtis Ringwalt, of the New York Bar. 
(393 pp., $1.50 ne<. By mail, $1.62.) 

*•* The next voltune in this series will be George H. Haynes' 
ELECTION OF SENATORS (April). 

THE NEGRO AND THE NATION 

By GEORGE 8. MERRIAM. The first complete history of 
the negro in his relation to American politics ; entertaining 
and scholarly. ($1.75 net. By mail, $1.92.) 

STUDIES IN AMERICAN TRADE UNIONISM 

By graduate students and officers of Johns Hopkins Univer- 
sity. Edited by Dr. J. H. HOLLANDER and Dr. G. E. 
BARNETT. Original investigations. (380 pp., $2.75 net. 
By mail, $2.98.) 

*»* A leaflet on the publishers' books on public problems 
and economics sent free on application. 



THE SEAMAID By RONALD MacDONALD. 

The strange experiences of the shipwrecked Dean of Beek- 
minster, his prim wife, his beautiful daughter, and others, 
on an uncharted island in the Pacific. ($1.50.) 

THE NONCHALANTE By Stanley OLMSTED. 

The talented young American pianist, Mr. Olmsted, knows 
his Leipsic well, and has drawn from it the local color for 
his story of Dixie Bilton, the American "operettensaengerin " 
in " Plissestadt." ($1.25.) 

THE LARKY FURNACE By hildegard brooks. 

A happy, whimsical book about the experiences of Sue Betty, 
with the larky furnace who would go out o' nights, and her 
other strange adventures. (lUus. by Peter Newell. $1.25.) 

THE GIRLS OF GARDENVILLE 

By CARROLL W. RANKIN, author of " Dandelion Cottage." 
Another book for girls, full of the moving incident and whole- 
some humor that bid fair to make the author's " Dandelion 
Cottage " a contemporary classic. (Illustrated. $1.50.) 




THE BIBLE 
FOR THE HOME 

At last we have the Bible in 
plain English— a new transla- 
tion which every one can un- 
derstand — fascinating to the child and absorbingly 
interesting to every reader, old and young. It is 

The American 
Standard Bible 

The King James Version was translated 300 
years ago, and therefore it is in the English then 
in use. As many of the words and expressions of 
three centuries ago are unfamiliar to the modern 
reader, many parts of the King James Bible are 
now difficult to understand. ' ^ 

In the American Standard Bible all of these 
strange and unfamiliar words and sentences have 
been replaced by plain, direct modern English 
no one can misunderstand. 

This version of the Bible represents the devoted 
labor ofthe ablest scholars in America and England 
during an uninterrupted period of 29 years. 

It is most strongly endorsed by the religious 
press of the entire country, by ministers of all de- 
nominations, Bible teachers and educators. It is 
in general use in the great colleges, theological 
seminaries, religious institutions, churches and 
Sunday schools everywhere. 

Our 40-pag:e Book Sent Free 

"Story of the American Standard Bible" 

It tells why the Bible was revised, 
how it was accomplished, and shows 
sample pages, bindings, etc., of the 
many styles issued. Your name on 
a postal card, with the name 
of your bookseller, will get you 
this book. 

All booksellers have in stock, 
or can quickly get from us, any style 
of the American Standard Bible you 
order. Prices 35c. to ^18.00, accord- 
i ng to size and binding. See that 
you get the American Standard 
Edition. Look for the Nelson im- 
print and the endorsement of the 
American Revision Committee on 
the back of the title page. tg^^We 
sell direct where booksellers will 
not supply. 

THOMAS NELSON & SONS 

41 V, East 18th Street 

NEW YORK 




1906.] 



THE DIAL, 



181 



NOTABLE NEW BOOKS 



The Latest and Best New England Romance 

THE GIRL FROM TIM'S PLACE 



THE GX^L/rom 
VMS. PLACE 




CHOui CLAM wami 



By Charles Clark Mltts, author of " Uncle Terry." Illustrated 

by Frank T. MerriU. Price, $1.50. 
An intensely fascinating love story of the Maine wilderness, weird 
and exciting, yet sweet and tender. 

A prominent character is Mr. Munn's masterpiece, " Old Cy 
Walker," the finest and drollest woodsman in fiction. Here are 
a few of his many bright and quaint sayings : 

" The man that won't bear watchin' needs it." 

" The more I see o' the world, the better I like the woods." 

" A girl with a new ring alius hez trouble with her hair." 




A Thrilling Story of Love and Mystery 

THE GOLDEN GREYHOUND 

By Dw^GHT Tiltox, author of '• >Iiss Petticoats," etc. Illustrated by E. Pollak. 
Price, #1.50. 
An up-to-date story of love, adventure, and mystery, with wireless 
telegraphy and all the modem improvements, that will not let you 
rest until you see how it is coming out. The hero is a rich young 
New Yorker and former Yale athlete. He is so attracted by a lovely 
face as to follow its possessor on board an Atlantic liner, called " The 
Golden Greyhound," on accoimt of a vast shipment of gold, where 
he is instnunental in solving a most baffling mystery, and his rash 
journey brings great happiness to all but a set of unsuccessful 
plotters. The book is as rich in himior as it is fertile in invention, 
and is strikingly handsome in make-up. 

A Book That Will be Read 

THE TWENTIETH CENTURY CHRIST 

By Paul Karishka. 12mo. Cloth. Net fl.OO. Postpaid, $1.10. 
This is a startling book, though not irreverent. The key-note is religious justice 

based on fair-minded research. 

The Leading Spring Juvenile 

UNDER TOGO FOR JAPAN 

Fourth voliune of the " Soldiers of Fortime Series." By Edward Stratemeyer. 
Illustrated by A. B. Shute. 12mo. Qoth. fl.25. 
A good account of the greatest naval battle of history and the close of the war in connec- 
tion with the experiences of favorite characters, well known to all the boys through the 
six volimies of the " Old Glory Series " and the three previous ones of this series. 

At all booksellers, or postpaid on receipt of price from the publishers. 



LOTHROP, LEE & SHEPARD CO. 



BOSTON 



182 THE DIAL [Marohie, 



THE OUTING PUBLISHING COMPANY 

WILL ISSUE IN MARCH 

THE THROWBACK THE PRAYING SKIPPER 

By ALFRED HENRY LEWIS By RALPH D. PAINE 

Illustrated fjy iV. C. Wyeth. Price $1.50. Ilhistrations by Blumenschein, Leyendecker, Aylward, 

A romantic story of the Southwest in the days when the and Sidney Adamson. Price $1.50. 

buffalo roamed the plains ; when the Indian Coimcil fires The readers of Ralph Paine's stories as they appeared in the 

still smoked and the law of the strongest prevailed. Few magazines will hasten to buy this volume just for the 

know the West as Mr. Lewis knows it, and he has written pleasure of preserving the stories and reading them again, 

here an intensely interesting novel full of incident, adven- The book contains the following: "The Praying Skipper," 

ture, and humor. "A Victory Unforeseen," "The Last Pilot Schooner," 

" Surfman Brainard's Day Off," " The Jade Teapot," " Cap- 

'pi-IC LIJCKY PIEOE tain Arendt's Choice," and " Corporal Sweeney, Deserter." 

By ALBERT BIQELOW PAINE SIDE SHOW STUDIES 

Frontispiece in color. Price $1.50. 

A tender, sweet, wholesome love story, the scene of which ^^ FRANCIS METCALFE 

is laid mostly among the mountains of the Adirondacks. Profusely Illustrated by Oliver Herford. Price $1.25. 

The Lucky Piece is an old Spanish coin and it plays an Mr. Metcalfe's book tells many funny things of the freaks 

important part in the story. How the somewhat idle and and the exhibits. The yam of how the elephant was white- 

blas6 young townsman found himself, throxigh the influence washed, how a mouse busted up the mermaid show, and the 

of the forest and mountains, will appeal to all lovers of the many other droll stories, make a volume at once amusing, 

outdoors. instructive, and entertaining. 



WILL ISSUE IN APRIL THE PASS By STEWART EDWARD WHITE 

With marginal decorations on every pac/e, frontispiece in color by Lundgren, and many illustrations 

from photographs. 8vo. $1.60 net. 
A companion volume to " The Mountains " and " The Forest," containing the story of a remarkable trip across the high 
Sierras. For brilliant description, entertaining and humorous incident, vivid lore of forest and mountain, this narrative 
probably excels everything Mr. White has yet written, and will no doubt be the leading outdoor book of the year. 



THE OUTING PUBLISHING CO., 35-37 W. 31st St., NEW YORK 



IMPORTANT— JUST PUBLISHED 

With Walt Whitman in Camden 

** One of the most remarkable biographical volumes that has appeared 
in the last hundred years." — Philadelphia Public Ledger. 

Conversations, Important Letters, and Manuscripts 
With 35 Full-page Portraits, Facsimiles, Etc. 

A fascinating diary record containing unpublished letters from Tennyson, Lord Houghton, John 
Addington Symonds, W. M. Rossetti, Robert Buchanan, John Morley, Ellen Terry, Edmund Gosse, 
Edward Carpenter, Edward Dowden, Sidney Lanier, Bret Harte, Joaquin Miller, John Hay, Edwin 
Booth, John Burroughs, William Douglas O'Connor, etc. 

All of these fall naturally into place, having been discussed by Whitman ; and the conversations therefore give his 
estimates and opinions of contemporary men and events. The book will prove a revelation to many who have not 
realized the breadth of Whitman's literary acquaintance nor his acutely keen critical sense. 

WRITTEN BY HORACE TRAUBEL 

ONE OF WHITMAN'S LITERARY EXECUTORS, and for many years his neighbor and intimate friend ; the book 
presents a picture of the daily life and thought of the poet, such as we have of no other great author, possibly 
excepting Dr. Johnson. 

8vo, 560 pp.. Cloth Decorative, gilt top, net $3.00. By post, $3.20. 

SMALL, MAYNARD & COMPANY PUBLISHERS BOSTON 



1906.] THE DIAL, 183 



OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS 

AMERICAN BRANCH 

NEW PUBLICATIONS 

JUST PUBLISHED 

New Large Type Shakespeare 

Complete works. Edited by W. J. Craig, M. A. With portrait and a Glossary. Crown 
8vo, cloth, ^1.50. 

Oxford India paper edition, cloth, $2.50 j Venetian morocco, ^3.75 ; Persian morocco, 1^4. 50. 

Oxford India paper edition, with illustrations from the Boydell Gallery, cloth, ^3.00 ; Rut- 
land morocco, $5.00. 

The Complete Poetical Works of Shelley 

Including materials never before printed in any edition of the poems. Edited with Textual 
Notes and Bibliographical List of Editions by Thomas Hutchinson, M. A. Demy 
8vo, with the Bodleian portrait of Shelley and two other collotype illustrations. Cloth, 
gilt lettered, $2.50. Crown 8vo, cloth, ^1.50. Oxford India paper edition, Persian 
morocco, $3.00. 

The Complete Poetical Works of Cowper 

Edited by H. S. Milford, M. A. i2mo, cloth, 75 cents. 

Johnson's Lives of the Poets 

Edited by the late George Birkbeck Hill. With a brief memoir of Dr. Hill by his nephew, 

Harold Spencer Scott, and a full Index. 

In three volumes, medium 8vo, half roan, |! 10.50. 

These volumes complete the cycle of works connected with the writings of Dr. Johnson, 
which was promised by Dr. Birkbeck Hill in the Preface to his edition of Boswell's Life. 

NOW COMPLETE 

The Oxford History of Music 

General Editor, W. H. Hadow. Vols. I and II by H. E. Wooldridge; Vol. Ill by Sir 

C. H. Parry; Vol. IV by J. A. Fuller-Maitland ; Vol. V by W. H. Hadow; 

Vol. VI by E. Dannreuther. 
Now complete in six 8vo volumes, with copious musical illustrations, price ^5.00 per volume, 

or $30.00 the set. 

The six volumes embrace the history of music from the beginning of the fourth to the 
middle of the nineteenth century, extending its range, in certain directions, as late as to the 
death of Verdi. 

A NOTABLE BOOK Criminal Responsibility 

By Charles Mercier, M. B., F. R. C. P., F. R. C. S., Lecturer on Insanity at the West- 
minster Hospital Medical School and at the Medical School of the Royal Free Hospital. 
8vo, cloth, $2.50. 



OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS 

AMERICAN BRANCH 

Nos. 91-93 FIFTH AVENUE NEW YORK CITY 



184 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 1906. 




READY APRIL 4 

Mr. Owen Wister*s new novel 



Lady Baltimore 



By the author of " The Virginian," etc. 
Illustrated with many drawings in the text and full-page half-tones. Cloth, fl.50. 
/f. V^A*i4w. A4»vrt. \ i»ykA*ii^ This is an entirely new departure for Mr. Wister. Its charm is of the old 
times instead of the new. Instead of rollicking cowboys riding half a day to 
meet a " schoolmarm " at a dance, the yoimg and imprudent Southern hero is surrounded — to his peril — by the most 
delightful women, young and old. It is another bit of American life, just as alive and genuine as "The Virginian." 



Mr. Egerton Castle's new novel If Youth But Knew 

By the author of "The Pride of Jennico," "Young April," etc. Illustrated by Launcelot Speed. Cloth, 81.60. 

The illustrations by Launcelot Speed are in precisely the atmosphere needed for Mr. Castle's characteristic vein of pure 
romance. Charming and delightful in themselves they have the complete association with the text which comes from their 
having been drawn under his direct supervision. 



OTHER RECENT IMPORTANT BOOKS 
Mr. James Loeb's translation from the French of the late ProfCSSOr Paul 

Decharme's Euripides and the Spirit of His Dramas 

An introduction is supplied by Professor John Williams White, of Harvard nniversity. 

With four full-page illustration*. Cloth, octavo, 392 page*, 83.00 net. 

The Life of John Wesley hy C. T. Winchester 

Professor of English Literature in Wesleyan University. Cloth, 8vo, 81.50 net (po*tage 16 et*.) 

It is a truthful, vivid narrative of a personality of unusual power, one of the most prominent figures of the eighteenth century, 
one who for some thirty years probably exerted a stronger personal influence than any other man in England. 

Grove's Dictionary of Music and Musicians New Edition 

By SIR 6E0RQE OROYE. Revised and greatly enlarged edition, in five volumes, illustrated with plates and text cuts. 

Vol. I. already issued. Vol. II., ju*t ready. Cloth, 8vo, 85.00 net per volume. 

The Life and Writings of Benjamin Franklin Fourth Volume 

Edited by ALBERT H. SMYTH, Professor of the English Language and Literature in the Central High School, Philadelphia. 
Limited Library Edition, in ten volumes, to appear at monthly intervals. 

Volume* I.-III., previou*ly issued. Volume IV., ju*t ready. Cloth, 8vo, 83.00 net per volume. 

The first volume of the new work by Henry Charles Lea, LL.D. 

A History of the Inquisition of Spain To be complete in four volume 

The author makes an uncommonly interesting contribution to the study of human history in his clear, illuminating account of 
how Spain developed from the most tolerant to the most intolerant of Christian countries. Of the disastrous outcome his later 
volumes will be the record. Volume I., 620 8vo page*. 82.50 net ( po*lage 22 ctt.) 

BY THE SAME AUTHOR 

A History of the Inquisition of the Middle Ages 

In three octavo volumes of about 600 pages each. Cloth, gilt tops, 87.50 for the set. 

"He has chosen a subject of extreme interest and importance, and has treated it in a manner which leaves nothing to be desired 
with respect to erudition, while at the same time he has produced a thoroughly readable book." — London Saturday Review. 



PUBLISHED 
BY 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 



64-66 FIFTH AVENUE 
NEW YORK 



THE DIAL 

a Snni'»^ontf)Ig Journal of l,iteTar5 Criticism, Disrassion, anb Information. 



THE DIAL (founded in ISSOJ U publUhed on the M and 16th 
of each month. Tbkhs of Subscbiption, J-?, a year in advance, 
pottage prepaid in the United Statet, Canada, and Mexico; 
in other countries comprised in the Postal Union, 50 cents a 
year for extra postage mtist be added. Bektitances should 
be by check, or by express or postal order, payable to THE 
DIAL COMPANY. Unless otherwise ordered, subscriptions 
rcill begin uith the current number. When no direct request 
to discontinue at expiration of subscription is received, it is 
assumed that a continuance of the subscription is desired. 
Advebtisixq Hatbs furnished on application. All communi' 
cations should be addressed to 

THE DIAL, Fine ArU Building, Chicago. 

ENTEKKD AT THE CHICAGO POSTOFFICB AS SBCOKI>-CLASS MATTES 
BY THE DIAL COSIPAITV, PUBUSHEBS. 



No. 474. 



]^IARCH 16. 1906. 



Vol. XL. 



COXTE>'TS. 

rjua 

CELTIC LITERATURK Charles Leonard Moore . 185 

A GIRL'S IMPRESSIONS OF VICTORIAN 

CELEBRITIES. Percy F. Bickndl .... 188 

THE MEANING AND INFLUENCE OF AMERI- 
CAN DIPLOMACY. Frederic Austin Ogg . . 190 

JAPANESE ARCHITECTURE AND ALLIED 

ARTS. Frederick W. Gookin 192 

THE GREATEST OF FRENCH DRAMATISTS. 

H. C. Chatjield-Taylor 192 

MILITARY CRITICISM' OF THE LATE WAR. 

William Elliot Griffis 194 

THE OLD. L^TTIOUBLED PAGAN WORLD. 

F. B. B. Hellems 196 

BRIEFS ON NEW BOOKS 197 

Daily life in Australia and the Philippines. — Rec- 
ords of a naturalist in the Shetlands. — ■ A famous 
Bishop and his work. — L'mbria and its foremost 
figure, St. Francis. — The civic awakening in Amer- 
ica. — The country house and how to build it. — 
Observations of an English husband's American wife. 
— " Even the gods must g^." — A book of imagi- 
nary portraits. — An uncrowned English queen. — 
A text-book on sociology. 

BRIEFER MENTION 202 

NOTES 208 

ANNOUNCEMENTS OF SPRING BOOKS ... 204 
A complete classified list of books to be issued by 
American publishers during the Spring of 1906. 

LIST OF NEW BOOKS 211 



CELTIC LITE RATURE. 

For twenty-five centuries the stage of our so-called 
civilized -world was occupied by two great groups of 
actors : Greek and Syrian they were, protagonists 
and antagonists, with chorus and semi-chorus from 
surrounding tribes. They grew up side by side, 
they made their entrances separately, but soon they 
clashed and contended and wrought out the drama 
and spectacle of life. Occasionally they were swept 



aside by invading hordes — by Northern barbarism 
orMoslem culture, — but they soon regained their place 
in the centre of the stage, and to this day they are 
the dominant powers in our thought Meanwhile 
what went on behind the scenes? 

It was not until toward the close of the eighteenth 
century that the existence of vast poems and mighty 
systems of thought in India were revealed to the 
European world. Even to-day these great reservoirs 
of reason and imagination are hardly accessible to 
the student ; and they have not begun to flow over 
and fertilize the fields of modem thought- The 
intuitive profundity of many conceptions in Hindoo 
philosophy surpasses the reasoned deductions of Greek 
or German metaphysic And the closing scenes 
of the Mahabharata, at least, have a spiritual and 
ethical significance not equalled by any European 
poem. 

About the same time the Teutonic race "found 
itself" in the great myths of the Niebelungenlied 
and the Icelandic Sagas. And simultaneously the 
Celtic genius rose on the horizon, and spoke in a 
voice that thriUed Europe. MacPherson's Ossian, 
vague and confused as it is — full of interpolations 
which show the influence of Shakespeare and the 
classics, — has yet in it the fundamental characteris- 
tics of primitive and original literature. 

It must be remembered, however, that one branch 
of the Celtic myth tree had blossomed and bour- 
geoned long before, — had in fact become almost the 
main stem of English literature. The Arthurian 
legend was twice a changeling, for, born in compara- 
tive simplicity or poverty in Wales, it was transported 
to France and decked with borrowed trappings of 
chivalry and Christianity. Then it was brought back 
by Malory, redacted by him, shorn of something of 
its over-blown glory, and made into the typical En- 
glish epic story. Milton indulged the dream of using 
the legend as the subject of his life-work, and it is 
perhaps a pity he did not finally choose it rather than 
the more high flying and difficult theme he under- 
took. At his hands we might have had something 
of the mystery and magic, the wild paganism, the 
primitive interpretation of nature and humanity, 
that is in the original Welsh legends. As it is we 
had to wait for Tennyson to make more prim and 
proper and conventional the already prim and proper 
and conventional version of Malory. For all the 
redactors of the Arthurian story have dealt as 
hardly with the Welsh originals as MacPherson did 



186 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



with his Irish ones. They transformed nature myths 
into chivahic romances and religious poems. While 
on one hand they deepened and hxmianized the 
legends, on another they wiped out all that was most 
characteristic of the Celtic nature. 

The originals, however, remained, and it is hardly 
too much to say that their resuscitation and recogni- 
tion have been the great literary find of the past fifty 
years. The Welsh cycle of legends and poetical 
relics came earliest into notice, and it is on these that 
the criticism of Renan and Arnold is mainly founded. 
Matthew Arnold's essay on Celtic Literature is almost 
the best critical treatise in the language, and it is 
certainly the most curious tour de force of criticism 
which exists anywhere. Apparently he knew only 
a few words of Welsh, had examined only a few 
relics of Welsh literature, and was in absolute igno- 
rance of the great mass of Irish poetry. Yet by a 
divination of genius which seems almost uncanny, 
he defined and described the Celtic genius as no one 
else has ever succeeded in doing. Perhaps with the 
instinct of an artist for effect, he forced the note of 
difference, of uniqueness, in Celtic literature further 
than there is warrant for doing. It is difficult to 
believe that the main characteristics that he found 
in this literature have not existed in other litera- 
tures and in all ages. " Melancholy," " Titanism " 
surely there is something of these qualities in the 
Bible and the Greek Tragedians, in Dante, Job, and 
Jeremiah. Prometheus, Orestes and (Edipus, the 
people of the Inferno, — these figures certainly 
express the emotions of pessimism and revolt in a 
larger sense than Llywarch Hgn or Taliesin. And 
from the Iberian rather than from the Celtic race 
rose the arch-rebel, Don Juan. In style, too, it is 
pretty hard to differentiate the Celtic natural magic, 
which Arnold discovered, from the charm of expres- 
sion in Sappho and Catullus. And the romantic inter- 
pretation of nature in the Celtic poetry ! Really there 
are fine things of this kind in the Bacchae of Euri- 
pides and in the wilder and weu-der scenes of Virgil. 
Human gifts seem to be a pretty constant quantity, 
and one hesitates to believe that an entirely new set 
of talents came in with the Celts. 

However, as this may be, the qualities which 
Arnold found in the Celtic genius are qualities of 
style — of personality. If one who has hardly more 
claim to scholarship in these matters may presume to 
judge, these qualities pertain rather to Welsh than 
to Irish literatm*e. The Irish legends are the much 
larger body of important work ; they are destined, 
I think, to have a greater future than the Welsh, 
but they are epic and impersonal. They are in many 
respects badly written. They have neither the sense 
of style which the best Welsh fragments possess, 



nor the form and proportion which the best Welsh 
stories display. 

Very probably this lack of fineness of phrase and 
form was not so evident in the original Irish poems. 
Dr. Douglas Hyde has told us of the poet culture 
which went on in Ireland during that country's great 
period. There was a Druidic and Bardic organiza- 
tion, which must have included a large percentage 
of the population of the state, supported at the cost of 
the state. There were colleges where the bards were 
trained and disciplined in the conception and execu- 
tion of poetry. There was an amazing list of model 
compositions which the students had to memorize, 
and there was a marvellously intricate system of 
versification which they had to master. If these 
accounts are facts, no race ever invented such a hot- 
house method for the production of literature. And 
from the hints and glimpses we have, it is probable 
that the«Irish bards did develop an almost unequalled 
technique in writing. Only their technique seems to 
have been mainly concerned with the music of syllar 
hies, whereas the Welsh poets cared more for the 
pictures in words. The difference obtains yet, if we 
may consider the English poets as the descendants 
of the Welsh bards. But the original productions of 
the Irish poets are gone. What we have is their 
work reduced to writing by monkish scribes after 
centuries of merely oral existence. The music would 
be the first thing to go out of the poems under these 
conditions. Of some of the epic legends there are a 
number of recensions extant. And these read as if 
the scribes had still other versions to choose from, 
and were so anxious not to lose anything good that 
they, as it were, superimposed one upon another. 
In the descriptions we have adjectives seven deep 
heralding the arrival of the nouns, and the same 
idea is repeated over and over again in slightly dif- 
ferent form. This excess of particularity and vivid- 
ness has almost the same effect as MacPherson's 
vague monotony, and leaves the figures and stories 
confused. 

If the Irish legends are inferior to the Welsh in 
mystic depth, in glimpse and gleam of revelation, 
they are also inferior to the Icelandic Sagas in world- 
wide significance, in the power of imagination which 
grasps the beginning and end of creation and seeks 
to explain everything between. The Irish gods and 
their doings are about what a child might imagine. 
There was no theology in the primitive Irishman's 
head. He was all for this world, and if he thought 
of the hereafter he conceived it merely as a place 
where there were improved opportunities for eating, 
drinking, fighting, and the making of love. He was 
absolutely healthy and cheerful. He had a romantic 
regard for woman. All pleasurable things appealed 



1906.] 



THE DIAL. 



187 



to him — splendid attire, wine, song. Poetry has 
probably never been so much honored as by him. 
"With a high sense of personal honor, he submitted to 
one singular superstition — a sort of taboo — called 
geasa. He thought that no honest man could object 
to having his head cut off in single combat if the 
play was fair. TVTiat, then, is the great value of the 
Irish epics ? It consists, I think, in the clear and 
undistorted splendor with which absolutely natural 
humanitj' is bodied forth. Does not the description 
I have given recall the Homeric world and the Ho- 
meric view of life ? 

Homer is indeed the name that leaps to our 
lips as we move about among the large humanities 
of the Irish epics. This is not because their heroes 
are half gods and perform deeds which put even 
the Greek Herakles or Achilles to the blush. These 
wonders detract rather than add to the vitality of 
the figures. But this vitality is so rich, so abounding, 
that in spite of extravagance or mediocrity of style, 
in spite of bad narrative form, a whole world of 
beings, splendid, magnificent, and real, rises to us 
from in the Irish legends. Essentially, taking the 
whole round of his career, Cuchulain is a finer figure 
than Achilles. The whole train of his mates and 
rivals, Fergus, Ferdiad, Conor, Meve, are tremendous 
triimiphs of projection. The love stories of Naoise 
and D^rrdre, of Diarmait and Grainne, rank with 
the most perfect in the world. For if the men of 
the Irish legends recall the men of Homer, the 
women have much of the qualitj- of Shakespeare's 
heroines. The gayety, the charm, the constancy, 
the pathos of Rosalind and Imogen are at least im- 
plicit in them. And the world in which these figures 
are set, a world of joyous intercourse in splendid 
palaces, of out-door life in field and forest, a world 
of banquet and sport and war, might be set against 
the world of either the Greek or English poet. 

What are we to do with this treasure trove of 
Celtic literature? Shall we take Walt Whitman's 
invitation and " cross out the immensely overpaid ac- 
count of Troy, Ulysses wanderings," and turn to this 
new material for themes and inspiration ? Or must 
we accept the fragmentary and amorphous Welsh 
and Irish poems as final and sacred works of art? 
Renan said sadly, ''We Celts will never build our 
Parthenon — marble is not for tis," but he claimed 
for his race the thrilling, penetrating cry which 
shakes and inspires the world. I speak under the 
protection of Renan's name when I say that Celtic 
literature has produced no great work. Its most 
powerful and effective production, the Arthurian 
legend, owes only its germ and origin to Celtic 
genius; it was biult up by many hands in many 
lands. Ireland is the home of the Fairy folk, the 



Aes Sidhe, yet no Celtic work can compare with 
Shakespeare's fairy comedy. Wild Wales, both the 
real land and its mirrored image in song, overflows 
with glamour, but what Welsh poem equals Cole- 
ridge's ''Christabel" in undefinable depths of magic 
meaning? Unconquered courage, stormy despair 
are in the Scotch Ossian, yet these qualities are 
carried to far greater heights in Milton and Byron. 
The Celtic charm of expression is keen and vivid, 
but Wordsworth and Keats outmatch it beyond com- 
pare. If we accept Arnold's view that many of the 
finest qualities of English poetry entered it from 
Celtic sources we must decide that the Celtic genius 
is a fecundating pollen, powerful when blown abroad 
but almost inert when it remains at home. 

In fact the Celtic mind would seem to be either 
too fine and frail, or too extravagant and florid, to 
create perfect works of art. It either has not the 
strength to build them at all or it overloads them 
until they break down. The relics of Celtic poetry 
rise before us somewhat like the circle at Stone- 
henge. This is not a qxiarry, for the sign of a mighty 
conception, the marks of human labor are there ; it 
is not a ruin, for it is buHt of materials too indes- 
tructible for decay. Or perhaps a better image of 
Celtic antiquity would be Milton's description of 
the animal creation, when all the beasts were strug- 
gling from the ground — " the lion pawing to get 
free its hinder parts." Half vital, half encumbered 
and embarrassed by the matter of which they are 
made, the Celtic legends start out into the world of 
art Neither the Heroic Cycle of Ulster, nor the 
legends of Finn, nor "The Four Branches of the 
Mabinogi," can, in their old shape, hope to become 
world poems. The Celtic gen'us which wrought 
them had nearly all the poetic gifts, except the gift 
to look before and after, to group each part in refer- 
ence to the whole. 

Therefore this magnificent poetic material lies 
open to the piracy of the poets of the world. It lacks 
the defense which the greatest poetry possesses of 
being done better than any new hand can possibly 
achieve. Contemporary critics wiU probably say 
that the modern poet had best busy himself with the 
modern world. Contemporary critics probably told 
Homer and Virgjil and Milton this same thing. If 
contemporary critics had had their way the world 
would never have seen any noble or serious poetry. 
For in the main such poetry requires g^eat themes 
and figures, and dim backgrounds to project them 
against. Such subjects are difficult to find, almost 
impossible to invent ; but the Celtic genius has given 
us by the basketful themes unsurpassed in literature, 
as yet only slightly wrought by art. 

Chakles Leonabd Moore. 



188 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



^t i^to §00ks. 



A GiRii's Impressions of VicToniAisr 
Celebrities.* 



To such of us as were young in the sixties 
and seventies, Miss Laura Haia Friswell's rec- 
ollections of those decades will bring a renewal 
of youth. (Be it here parenthetically observed 
that we use the author's pen-name, which is also 
her maiden name, her husband's name — unless 
it be also Friswell — being unknown to us.) The 
genial friends, the wise and witty sayings, the 
rare good times, the thrilling experiences, of 
those early years will never see their match ; and 
j£ Si laudatrix temporis acti, her memory kindled 
into a rosy glow with the enchantment of those 
distant and fast-fading scenes, writes with some 
excess of fond enthusiasm for their vanished 
glories, she certainly merits, not the censure, 
but rather the thanks of her sympathizing con- 
temporaries. The famous men and women of 
the past can never be made too real and living 
to us, and it is for the vivid presentation of their 
personalities and peculiarities that we have much 
reason to thank Miss Friswell, especially as she 
offers, for the most part, what is best and most 
attractive in their characters. The bright daugh- 
ter of a gifted father, she enjoyed unusual op- 
portxmities for meeting and mingling with the 
illustrious of her own time and country, as well 
as with some foreign notables, and she appears 
to have made good use of these opportunities. 

The writer's name will recall that of her father, 
James Hain Friswell, the once popidar but now 
little read author of the very successful essays 
on " The Gentle Life," and of numerous miscel- 
laneous works besides. Her own " Gingerbread 
Maiden and other Stories," published in her 
teens, and her memoir of her father — to name 
no other of her writings — show her to be sealed 
of the tribe of authors. The references she has 
introduced to her own personal appearance, and 
to her extraordinary resemblance to Marie An- 
toinette, incline one to surmise that, besides in- 
heriting her father's literary tastes, she was also, 
in her physical endowment, matre pulchrajilia 
pulchrior. " I have tried," she pleads apologet- 
ically in her closing paragraph, " to keep from 
intruding too much upon my readers, but I fear 
I have not altogether succeeded ; therefore I 
would remind them, and my critics, that aU rem- 
iniscences are bound to be leaves from the lives 

•In the Sixties and Seventies. Impressions of Literary 
People and Others. By Laura Hain Friswell. Boston: Herbert 
B. Turner & Co. 



of the writers, and, however one may wish to 
avoid egotism, it is not possible in a book of this 
kmd." 

Admirable, though often amusing, is the writ- 
er's championship, early and late and at all times, 
of the cause of literary folk. Bom and bred in 
a literary atmosphere, that atmosphere was to 
her, even as a child, the breath of life, and she 
could brook no disparagement of authors. Of 
the poet Gerald Massey, whose two little girls 
were her schoolmates, and of his invalid wife, 
she writes : 

" Mrs. Massey was very delicate, and it was said the 
poet did all his own housekeeping, and even bought his 
children's clothes. This seemed to the schoolgirls not 
a man's business, and the elder girls did not scruple to 
laugh and jeer, which hurt his daughters' feelings, mak- 
ing the elder indignant, and the younger cry : and I, who 
hated such behaviour, and would not have literary people 
laughed at on any acconnt, stoutly maintained that to 
do the housekeeping and to buy clothes was peculiar to 
poets, and therefore quite right. As I was looked upon 
as an authority on literary manners, if not matters, the 
chaff ceased." 

Our author's detailed reports of long conver- 
sations equal some of Madame Adam's amazing 
achievements in this department of autobiog- 
raphy. After some pages of dialogue about an 
expected call from Mr. Swinburne, the narra- 
tive proceeds as follows : 

"A little man walked straight into the room; his head, 
which was crowned by a quantity of auburn hair, was 
held high, his eyes stared straight in front of him, and 
he was evidently quite unconscious that he was not alone 
in the room. My mother walked forward and held out 
her hand. He started, and dropped his hat ; my gover- 
ness went forward and picked it up ; he almost snatched 
it from her. . . . Mr. Swinburne sat down on the edge 
of a chair. He bent slightly forward, his arms resting 
on his knees, his hat balanced between his fingers, and 
he kept swinging it backwards and forwards, just as I 
had seen Mr. Toole do in a farce; he dropped it and 
picked it up several times. I think he was about twenty- 
nine or thirty years old at this time — not more than 
five feet six in height, and he had that peculiar pallor 
which goes with auburn hair; and this paleness was 
heightened by study, enthusiasm, and the fierce, rebel- 
lious spirit which seemed to animate that fragile body, 
and which glows and burns in his writings. My mother 

and Miss W did all they could to put him at ease, 

and I sat and repented that I had ever wished to see 
him, for I pitied him intensely, he seemed so very ner- 
vous. . • . My father now appeared, and by his conver- 
sational powers and tact soon set Mr. Swinburne quite 
at his ease. He ceased to fidget, and talked of Coleridge 
and other poets in a most interesting manner — to hear 
him and my father was an intellectual treat." 

Interesting memories are given of Toole and 
Irving and other actors. The author has much 
of Charles Lamb's fondness for the old plays and 
the old heroes of the footlights. With Irving 
the Friswells were on terms of intimacy, even to 



1906.] 



THE jyiAJL 



189 



the point of maJdng criticisms and advising 
changes in some of his plays. Two passages 
relating to this lamented genius may well find 
space for insertion here. 

" My mother, and indeed all of us, often used to point 
out little details that had been overlooked. I remember 
one in The Bells, which my mother told Mr. Irving on 
the first night, when he returned to our house to supper. 
People who have seen the play may remember that the 
first scene is a small iim, in the depths of the country, 
and that there is supposed to have been a deep fall of 
snow — in fact, it is still snowing. 'ITie innkeeper, ' Mat- 
thias ' (Irving), walked in, on that first night, in ordinary 
black boots, with no snow upon them. My mother spoke 
of it, and afterwards ' Matthias ' wore high black boots, 
and stood on the mat while the snow was brushed off 
them. Remarks were made in the papers as to Mr. 
Irving's attention to the minutest details, and this was 
cited as an instance." 

"We had been waiting for « Bob Gasset,' and now he 
came, but looked so different I could scarcely believe he 
was the same man. Mr. Irving was then under thirty, 
had a pale, serious, intellectual face, and long, rather 
wavy, black hair, and was as different from his make- 
up as Bob Gasset as can well be imagined. We all got 
into a cab and drove home, Irving coming in to supper. 
My father talked about the play, and said how much he 
liked it; but the actor talked very little; he gave me 
the idea of being melancholy, I thought he was tired. 
I did not know then that sUence and seeming lassitude 
were habitual to him ; but so it was, for, though I saw 
him often for four or five years, I do not think I ever 
saw him cheerful, let alone hilarious. His face, voice, 
figure, proclaimed the tragedian — and yet how well he 
can play comedy every one knows who has seen him as 
' Jingle.' That night he quite annoyed me, for when 
we came into the dining-room he suddenly put up his 
eye-glasses, and, after a caref xd scrutiny of my face, said, 
more to himself than to my father and mother: 'Very 
pretty — extraordinary likeness to Marie Antoinette.' 
I became crimson ; but Irving was not in the least per- 
turbed. I might have been a picture, from the cool way 
in which he looked at me, and I have never been able to 
determine whether he knew he spoke aloud." 

A rather melancholy picture of Du Maurier, 
sitting sadly in the twilight of increasing blind- 
ness, is presented in the following, which evi- 
dently refers to a period later than the seventies. 

" I went and found the artist sitting alone and seem- 
ingly rather dull. He told me he was almost blind ; and 
he spoke of my father's early death, of his hard work, 
his philanthropy and his Christianity. He talked of his 
own work, and seemed afraid he should not be able to 
keep on drawing much longer for Punch. ' You think 
I can see you,' he said; 'but though I know you are 
quite near me, you are in a grey mist, and I cannot dis- 
tinguish your features.' . . . He talked of the old days 
in Great Russell Street, and said ' that then was his hap- 
piest time, and those were the palmy days of Punch'. . . . 
He had not at this time written Trilby. I never saw 
him after that book came out." 

A glimpse of Dickens, whose " Old Curiosity 
Shop ' the author says she almost knew by heart, 
will here be welcome. 

« My father was very fond of taking me out and about 



with him, so that at a very early age I became acquainted 
with authors, publishers, and printers. On one occasion 
we were walking down Welling^n Street, Strand, and 
just passing the office of Household Words, when a han- 
som cab stopped, and out stepped a gaily dressed gen- 
tleman ; his bright green waistcoat, vivid scarlet tie, 
and pale lavender trousers would have been noticed by 
any one, but the size of the nosegay in his buttonhole 
riveted my attention, for it was a regular flower garden. 
My father stopped and introduced me, and I, who had 
only seen engravings of the Maclise portrait, and a very 
handsome head in my mother's photograph album, wa& 
astonished to find myself shaking hands with the great 
novelist, Charles Dickens. His manner was so exceed- 
^S^y pleasant and kind to a young nobody like me that 
I was very much taken with him; and I was moreover 
very anxious to like the man who had created Dick 
Swiveller and the Marchioness, and Little Nell and her 
grandfather." 

No preface is required to the following real- 
istic description of Tennyson. The scene is laid 
in the Charing Cross Station. 

" A train drew up, and out of it stepped a gentleman. 
My father said something which I did not catch, and 
going up to him stopped and shook hands. The gentle- 
man would have been tall, but his shoulders seemed 
somewhat bent; his hair was long, so was his beard; he 
wore an ugly Inverness cape and a large slouch hat ; he 
looked like a bandit in a melodrama, and I thought him 
some poor actor who had come out in some of the stage 
properties. As he talked to my father I was conscious 
of his looking very often at me; at last he said: ' So this 
is yotir daughter — you must be proud of such a daugh- 
ter.' My father smiled, and replied: 'I could wish her 
to be stronger.' ' Is she delicate ? ' exclaimed Tennyson. 
• Why, when I saw you coming she reminded me of the 
Goddess of the Mom — she quite brightens up this dull 
and dreary place,' and he looked with disgust round the 
station, which I had always liked. ' She looks the incar- 
nation of youth and health,' he added." 

The writer indulges in a curious lamentation 
over what would seem to be the exceptionally 
fortunate circumstances of her upbringing. She 
says, " I think now it was rather hard on us 
youngsters to always have so many clever and 
brilliant people roimd us ; we always seemed to 
be kept at attention." Readers of her book will 
not echo her regret. As a record of " Impres- 
sions of Literary People and Others," it is 
vivid, rapid, thoroughly entertaining and seldom, 
frivolous, and, despite occasional carelessness — 
such carelessness as one expects in a lady who 
is dashing off her reminiscences about as they 
occur to her, — generally well written. But as 
the writer takes occasion to regret the modem 
decline in literary style and grammatical correct- 
ness among our host of " amateur " authors, she 
may pardon a reviewer for calling attention to a 
few slips in her own pages. The split infinitive 
in the last quotation we pass over as likely to 
offend none but that terror of us all, the purist. 
But " I put up with it like a good sister should 



190 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



contains a vulgarism truly surprising in this par- 
ticular sister. Of Disraeli and his wife we read 
that " they mutually loved each other"; and in 
another place, " Then we settled down to talk 
of the people we had mutually known." On 
another page the writer speaks of playing " a 
Lieder of Mendelssohn's." The London Plague 
she makes break out in 1664, a year too soon. 
Last, and least, " yodle " she spells " joddle," 
and for " waltz " she writes " valse." All these 
are small matters, introduced here largely in 
the hope of pleasing the author by proving to 
her how thoroughly her excellent chapters have 
been conned even by the reviewer, who, as we 
all know, is perfectly qualified to judge of any 
book by its weight, odor, and superficial aspect. 
Percy F. Bicknell. 



The Meaxing and Influence of 
American Diplomacy.* 



Many readers of " Harper's Magazine " 
during the past year or two have followed with 
rather unusual interest a series of articles con- 
tributed by Professor John Bassett Moore, of 
Columbia University, on the significant aspects 
of American diplomatic history and practice. 
They, in common with a larger public, will be 
glad to know that these studies, after the ap- 
proved fashion in such cases, have been brought 
together in book form, and that by a consider- 
able amount of revision and amplification they 
have been made even more suggestive and illum- 
inating than as first published. The primary 
object of the work, in the words of the author, 
is " to give, not a chronological narrative of 
international transactions, but rather an ex- 
position of the principles by which they were 
guided, in order that the distinctive purposes of 
American diplomacy may be understood and 
its meaning and influence appreciated." A 
thoroughgoing and comprehensive history of 
American diplomacy would be a most welcome 
acquisition, especially if it came from the hand 
of such a master in the field as is Professor 
Moore ; but apparently for such a piece of work 
we have yet a good while to wait. In lieu of it 
the next best thing, and perhaps for the reading 
public a really more useful thing, is such a vol- 
ume as that now under review. Li this we have 
at least a very readable presentation of the prin- 
ciples and spirit underlying the dealings with 

* American Diplomacy, its Spirit and Achievements. By 
John Bassett Moore, LL.D. Illustrated. New York : Harper & 
Brothers. 



foreign powers, even though with only enough 
historical detail to afford a fair background for 
interpretation. 

The point of view from which Professor 
Moore has approached his subject is set forth 
explicitly in his prefatory note when he affirms 
that " nothing could be more erroneous than the 
supposition that the United States has, as the 
result of certain changes in its habits, suddenly 
become, within the past few years, a ' world- 
power.' " The United States is declared to have 
been " always in the fullest and highest sense 
a world-power." There is nothing essentially 
novel, of course, in the assertion, and yet in 
these times it calls for all the emphasis that 
Professor Moore has placed upon it. Six or 
seven years ago, amidst the excitement incident 
to war, conquest, and expansion, it became the 
custom to picture the United States as breaking 
forth with startling suddenness from her tradi- 
tional isolation and making a highly dramatic, 
not to say sensational, debut as a world power. 
Afterwards, however, when we became able once 
more to reflect sanely upon our international 
position, we discovered that never since we have 
constituted an independent nation have we been 
anything else than a world-power, and that our 
present status (whether for better or for worse) 
differs from that of ten or of fifty years ago 
merely in degree rather than in kind. In an 
essay published as long ago as 1899 Professor 
Albert Bushnell Hart drove home the fact that 
historically the United States has never been an 
isolated power, and now Professor Moore builds 
his whole argument on the thesis ; in truth if one 
cares to trace the earlier development of the idea 
he will fuid it stated perfectly by Trescot in his 
treatise on the diplomacy of the American Rev- 
olution, written more than half a century ago. 

In his opening chapter Professor Moore gives 
us a succinct account of the beginnings of our 
diplomatic history. After laying down the prop- 
osition that the advent of the United States into 
the family of nations was the most important 
event of the past two hundred years, he describes 
graphically the difficulties and embarrassments 
which the young power was called upon to face 
before it had won its way to an honorable inter- 
national standing. The sketch contains nothing 
that is new, but as a convenient summary it is 
distinctly worth while. The method of the suc- 
ceeding nine chapters is topical rather than chro- 
nological. The first subject taken up is " The 
System of Neutrality." The years of the Con- 
federation have been designated as the critical 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



191 



period of our early national history, but the ex- 
pression might be applied with almost equal 
propriety to the years between 1791 and 1796 
during which American independence was totter- 
ing vmder the impact of European turmoil. As 
Professor Moore points out, the perils which the 
nation encountered at this time were greater than 
the old Confederation could have withstood, and 
were a very severe test of the efficacy of the new 
Constitution. The temptations to wander from 
the straight and narrow path of neutrality were 
all but overpowering. Almost alone among the 
statesmen of the time Washington kept a level 
head, and it was his decisive action more than 
anything else that warded off the danger. Pro- 
fessor Moore's accoimt of the Genet mission, 
while very brief, is illuminating. Of Genet him- 
self it is remarked that he " has been the subject 
of much unmerited obloquy ; in circumstances 
exceptionally trying his conduct was ill-advised, 
but not malevolent." 

After an interesting chapter on the contribu- 
tions of the United States toward establishing the 
freedom of the seas, — especially with respect 
to the Mediterranean pirates, the impressment 
of seamen, the right of search, the African slave- 
trade, and the free navigation of sounds, straits, 
and other water channels, — we find a useful 
sketch of the fisheries questions which represents 
a chapter added since the serial publication of 
the studies. And of course there is a chapter 
on the much-discussed, if not over- worked, Mon- 
roe Doctrine. For the most part this chapter 
is of necessity a rehearsal of facts already well 
known, but it contains also some general obser- 
vations and conclusions which, coming from such 
a man as Professor Moore, are worthy of the 
most thoughtfid attention on the part of our 
people. Says the writer: 

"A tendency is often exhibited to attach decisive 
importance to particular phrases in President Monroe's 
message of 1823, or to the special circumstances in 
which it originated, as if they furnished a definitive test 
of what shotUd be done and what should be omitted un- 
der all contingencies. The verbal literalist would, on 
the one hand, make the United States an involuntary 
party to all controversies between European and Ameri- 
can governments, in order that the latter may not be 
• oppressed ' ; while the historical literalist would, on the 
other hand, treat Monroe's declaration as obsolete, since 
the conditions to which they specially referred no 
longer exist. But when we consider the mutations in the 
world's affairs, these modes of reasoning must be con- 
fessed to be highly unsatisfactory. The * Monroe Doc- 
trine' has in reality become a convenient title by which is 
denoted a principle that doubtless would have been 
wrought out if the message of 1823 had never been writ- 
ten — the principle of the limitation of European power 



and influence in the Western hemisphere. . . . The 
Monroe Doctrine ... is now generally recognized as a 
principle of American policy. To its explicit acceptance 
by Great Britain and Germany there may be added the 
declaration which was spread by unanimous consent upon 
the minutes of The Hague Conference, and which was 
permitted to be annexed to the signature of the American 
delegates to the convention for the peaceful adjustment 
of international disputes, that nothing therein contained 
should be so construed as to require the United States * to 
depart from its traditional policy of not entering upon, 
interfering with, or entangling itself in, the political 
questions or internal administration of any foreign state,' 
or to relinquish ' its traditional attitude toward purely 
American questions.' " 

The three topics of expatriation, international 
arbitration, and territorial expansion are taken 
up in order and traced rapidly through the whole 
course of our national history. And finally 
there is the closing chapter on " Influence and 
Conditions," in many ways the most valuable in 
the book. Here Professor Moore attempts an 
estimate (which he would be the first to recog- 
nize as only partial) of American diplomacy in 
respect to its influence upon civilization at large 
and particularly upon the methods and condi- 
tions of intercourse among states. He finds 
that this influence has been at least three-fold. 
In the first place, the diplomacy of the United 
States has fostered political, commercial, and 
maritime liberty; in the second place, it has 
emphasized the principle of legality in the con- 
duct of international affairs ; and lastly, it has 
promidgated ideals of honesty, good-faith, sim- 
plicity, and directness which foreign offices and 
diplomats have always been much too prone to 
ignore. To the general assertion with which 
the volume closes, to the effect that American 
diplomacy has been identified with the cause of 
freedom and justice, many individual exceptions 
might easily be taken ; yet that it is true in all 
essential respects no one at all acquainted with 
the subject woxdd undertake to deny. 

Professor Moore's task in this book has been 
to search out the things which the United States 
has stood for in the realm of international poli- 
tics and to make an exposition of them in the 
light of briefly enumerated facts. This under- 
t^dng he has accomplished with signal success. 
One may question his assignments of space or of 
historical importance to one topic or another, or 
his judgments of men and events, though to the 
reviewer these seem on the whole to be admir- 
able ; but there are practically no misstatements 
of fact, and of affirmations of opinions which do 
not grow out of the most careful thought there 
are none at aU. Frederic Austin Ogg. 



192 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



JAPANESE Architecture and 
Allied Arts.* 



The reader who takes up Mr. Ralph Adams 
Cram's " Impressions of Japanese Architecture 
and the Allied Arts " is likely to lay it down 
again with a sigh of regret that there is not 
more of it, albeit thick j^aper, wide margins, and 
the sixty f lUl-page illustrations swell its propor- 
tions to a good-sized voliune. Four of the ten 
chapters were written for architectural period- 
icals ; one is a paper that was read before the 
Boston Society of Arts and Crafts. Necessarily, 
they deal chiefly with generalities, and there is 
some repetition, or rather reiteration, of the same 
ideas. This reiteration does not, however, de- 
tract from the charm of the book, and the ideas 
thus reinforced are sound and are cogently 
expressed. It is evident that Mr. Cram has 
studied his subject with painstaking care, keeping 
the larger relations ever in mind ; and the 
essays that make up this volume are thoughtful 
and discriminating. He tells us that we must 
consider the art of Old Japan, and particidarly 
the religious architecture, as the Aasible expres- 
sion of the ancient civilization of China and 
Japan, which from the seventh to the twelfth 
centuries was the highest civilization then exist- 
ing in the world. But, as he says, — 

" From the standpoint of the casual traveller, even of 
the architect, Japanese architecture is at first abso- 
lutely baffling; it is like Japanese music, so utterly for- 
eign, so radically different in its genesis, so aloof in its 
moods and motives from the standards of the West, that 
for a long time it is a wonder merely, a curiosity, a toy 
perhaps, or a sport of nature, not a serious product of 
the human mind, a priceless contribution to the history 
of the world. Partly by inheritance, partly by educa- 
tion, we have been qualified for thinking in one way, 
and in one way only. From Athens through Rome, 
Byzantium, the Auvergne, Normandy, the He de France, 
to Yorkshire and Somerset, there is running an easily 
traceable thread of unbroken continuity of architectural 
tradition; but from Athens tlirough Ionia, Persia, Hin- 
dustan, China, and Korea, to Japan, while the line is 
equally continuous, it is through lands aloof and barred, 
and by ways that are blind and bewildering. We can 
think forward in the terms of the West, we can hardly 
think backward in the terms of the mysterious East. 
Yet when the revolution is accomplished and the rebel- 
lious mind is bent to the unfamiliar course, this strange 
architecture comes to show itself in its true light. It is 
more nearly Greek than any other, for it is the perfect- 
ing of a single, simple, and primitive mass by almost 
infinite refinements of line and proportion." 

This is a significant utterance, not only from 
the novelty of the view put forth, — no other 
author having ventured an appreciation of Jap- 

* Impressions op Japanese Architecture and the Alued 
Arts. By Ralph Adams Cram. Illustrated. New York: The 
Baker & Taylor Co. 



anese architecture at its true worth, — but be- 
cause it is the view that must prevail when that 
architecture is more widely studied. StUl, as the 
Philistine in matters of art is not easily turned 
from his traditional notions, Mr. Cram's conten- 
tion would be more convincing were more of 
the details filled in. These, let it be hoped, will 
some day be forthcoming. Meanwhile, there is 
reason to be grateful for a competent and illum- 
inating summary of the historical development 
of the art, and some account of the more impor- 
tant buildings that have been preserved from 
ancient times. 

All of the book is not given over to architec- 
ture. The chapter on "The Genius of Japan- 
ese Art" is a clear and forcible presentation of 
fundamental truths ; the " Note on Japanese 
Sculpture" affords an excellent introduction to 
a much neglected subject; and very charming 
is the chapter on " Temple Grardens." In speak- 
ing of "The Minor Arts" there are lapses here 
and there into such extravagant phrase as " that 
from the very first whatever had been made by 
any workman had been beautiful." Would it 
were so ! Strict regard for truth, however, com- 
pels the admission that not all Japanese work- 
men are artists. With little that Mr. Cram says 
is there occasion to quarrel. His spelling of 
"kakimono " (whatever that may mean) instead 
of " kakemono " will not pass muster. The color 
print by Yeizan, not "of Yeizan" as he puts it, 
is well characterized as "not a masterpiece." 
But when he asserts that " it says as much, per- 
haps all we can ever understand, of the pictorial 
art of Japan," the statement may be challenged 
squarely. The qualities he proceeds to comment 
upon are for the most part wanting in the print 
he takes as a text, and of which a half-tone re- 
production is given. The other illustrations are 
from photographs, selected with excellent judg- 
ment, but they might have been better reproduced 
and printed. Frederick W. Gookin. 



The Greatest of French Dramatists.* 



So little has been written in English about 
Moliere that admirers of le grand comique, as 
Frenchmen call their genius of comedy, will 
hail Mr. Henry M. TroUope's biography as a 
commendable attempt to add a necessary work 
to a meagre literature. To quote Mr. Andrew 
Lang's article in the Encyclopaedia Britannica 
on this great Frenchman, " The English biog- 

* The Life op Moliere. By Henry M. Trollope. With 
portraits. New York: E. P. Dutton & Ck). 



1906.] 



THE DIAL. 



193 



raphies of Moliere are few and as a rule abso- 
lutely untrustworthy." Considering that in the 
literature of the modem drama Moliere stands, 
after Shakespeare, in the foremost place, and 
that in the literature of France his is the greatest 
name, this dearth of English works about him 
becomes indeed remarkable. 

No point need be raised as to the timeliness 
of Mr. TroUope's book. The questions for con- 
sideration are its accuracy, construction, and 
charm. In the case of the first of these qual- 
ities only praise may be given. The author 
has examined all French authorities, both orig- 
inal and commentative, so thoroughly that the 
most captious critic woidd find it difficidt to 
gainsay his knowledge of the topic upon which 
he writes. 

The earlier jjeriod of Moliere's life is veiled, 
to a great extent, in mystery ; yet it is a matter 
of small moment whether he left Paris with a 
band of strolling players in the autumn of 1645 
or the spring of 1646 ; or just when he joined 
forces with a provincial actor named Dufresne. 
The points of human interest are that Moliere, 
the son of a weU-to-do upholsterer to the king, 
preferred the stage to a shop-ridden life, and 
that after failure in Paris as an actor and im- 
prisonment for debt he had the courage, upon 
his release from gaol, to flee to the provinces 
and f oUow the calling of a strolling player for 
thirteen years rather than return to his father's 
shop. Nor does it matter whether " L'Etourdi " 
was first produced at Lyons in 1653 or 1655. 
The fact which interests posterity is that an 
itinerant actor, who had previously written only 
rough canevas — or frameworks of plays — sud- 
denly turned his pen to verse and wrote a five- 
act comedy that electrified a Lyons audience 
and acclaimed the birth of a new kin g. 

O 

The one contested point in Moliere's life of 
prime importance to biographers is the parent- 
age of his wife, Armande Bejart. Though pre- 
sented, in her marriage certificate and various 
other docimients of the period, as the legitimate 
daughter of Joseph Bejart and Marie Herve, 
still the calumnies heaped upon Moliere by jeal- 
ous rivals have made the majority of his biog- 
raphers persist in believing his wife to be the 
illegitimate daughter of Madeleine Bejart, an 
actress whom he loved in his youth. Volumes 
have been written upon this subject, and the 
end is not yet. To Mr. TroUope's credit, be it 
said, he takes a judicial view of the case, adjudg- 
ing Armande Bejart, in accordance with xmre- 
futed documentary evidence, to be legitimate. 
Possibly their national jurisprudence has led so 



many Frenchmen to believe the charges brought 
against her legitimacy ; according to French 
law she is guilty because not proved innocent, 
whereas an Anglo-Saxon judge would dismiss 
the charge against her because of insufficient 
testimony. 

Throughout his book Mr. Trollope shows 
painstaking and accurate scholarship. M. Paul 
Lacroix's " Bibliographic Molieresque " con- 
tains perhaps a himdred and fifty titles of books 
and articles relating to Moliere's life or the his- 
tory of his troupe ; yet La Grange, Vinot, Gri- 
marest, Bruzen de la Martiniere, Tallemant des 
Reaux, De Vize, Loret, Boulanger de Chalussay, 
Brossette, and the anonymous author of a pam- 
phlet entitled " La Fameuse Comedienne " are 
the authors from whom all modem biographers 
have drawn their material. When a few his- 
torical sidelights, such as Chappuzeau and the 
Brothers Parfaict, are added, together with the 
documentary discoveries of Beffara, Jal, and 
Soulie, a fairly complete repository of knowl- 
edge upon the subject has been catalogued. The 
work of these and many lesser authorities Mr. 
Trollope has thoroughly digested. 

Although there have been many modem bio- 
graphers of Moliere since Taschereau, the first 
of them, Mr. TroUope is justified in selecting 
MM. Despois and Mesnard as his literary guides. 
Having their superb definitive edition of Moli- 
ere's works at hand, and the numbers of the 
Molieriste magazine, so ably edited by the dis- 
tinguished archivist of the Theatre Fran^ais, M. 
Georges Monval, he need look no further for 
accuracy of information. It is not hyper-praise 
to say that he alone, of aU English-speaking 
writers upon Moliere, has thoroughly mastered 
his subject ; yet one is compelled to qualify this 
approval by adding that he has presented his 
knowledge in a manner far from commendable 
as regards construction and charm. 

In considering the matter of construction, it 
should be borne in mind that Mr. TroUope's 
book is intended for English readers ; therefore, 
an intimate knowledge of French should not be 
required, else it may be asked why the book 
exists at aU ? A reader able to comprehend the 
many French extracts, in both verse and prose, 
which adorn its pages must be sufficiently versed 
in the language of Moliere to consult French 
biographies, far more charmingly and quite as 
accurately written as Mr. TroUope's bulky work. 
It is admittedly difficult to translate French verse 
into English, yet even an abortive attempt would 
have given the general reader a clearer idea of 
Moliere's diction than Mr. TroUope has done by 



194 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



confronting him with Alexandrine strophes in a 
foreign language, the meaning of which it is 
necessary to understand in order to grasp the 
author's comments. 

In the arrangement of his material Mr. Trol- 
lope shows a decided lack of orderliness. Being 
thoroughly imbued with his subject-matter, he 
continually presupposes a like knowledge on the 
reader's part. Particularly is this true of Chapter 
VIII., devoted to Moliere's ideas of comedy and 
a comparison between Shakespeare and Moliere. 
Heretofore, the reader has been made acquainted 
with but four of the poet's plays ; yet Mr. Trol- 
lope proceeds to discuss technically the poet's 
methods of work throughout the entire range of 
his thirty-four comedies. This chapter, with the 
single exception of the introductory view of 
French comedy before Moliere, by far the most 
thoughtful in the book, should have been placed 
in conclusion. Its resume of Moliere's work is 
not mtelligible to one unfamiliar with his plays ; 
its discussion of Shakespeare and Moliere is out 
of place at the moment, if not altogether so, on 
the principle that comparisons are likely to prove 
odious. Certainly there are many critics willing 
to cede Shakespeare the foremost place in the 
drama who will stoutly contest Mr. Trollope's 
assertion that he is the Frenchman's superior 
in comedy. 

In viewing the construction of Mr. Trollope's 
book one is reminded of a dingy attic heaped 
with a pile of dusty books upon an admira- 
ble subject. A scholar with the time and in- 
clination to ferret out knowledge wiU find it 
there, but the general reader will prefer a corner 
in a cosy library beside a shelf of weU-selected 
volumes. In other words, a book less volumi- 
nous, but more entertaining, than Mr. Trollope's 
would find a much wider field. 

In charm, as weU as in construction, this 
biography leaves much to be desired. Moliere's 
early struggles, his wanderings as a stroUing 
player, his triumph at court and strange inti- 
macy with Louis XIV., the assaults of his ene- 
mies, the heartlessness of his wife, his friendship 
with such men as BoUeau and La Fontaine, his 
tragic death and burial, make his life-story one 
of strong human interest, demanding skiU as a 
word painter in the telling. This is a quality 
in which Mr. TroUope is singularly deficient. 
His style is so cumbersome, his language so ver- 
bose, that he wearies when he should charm. 
Take, for instance, this extract in which he en- 
deavors to describe the character of the people 
Madame de RambouiUet invited to the assem- 
blies in her famous Blue Room : 



" Ladies must be known to the hostess, or known well 
by her intimate friends, and they must be of good birth, 
before the invitation would be given. If a gentleman 
had pleasant maimers and could talk well, and espe- 
cially if he was in any way distinguished, he might gain 
admittance inside her doors." 

Aside from its archaism, this description, like 
many others in Mr. TroUope's book, is tauto- 
logical. All he has told us in these fifty-three 
words might have been expressed far more 
clearly in sixteen by saying: "The hostess in- 
vited only well-born women ; men were admitted 
within her doors by cleverness or charm." 

In speaking of comedy the author argues that 
" a sort of magnetic influence is at work, carry- 
ing with it delight or boredom, and the infection 
is caught." The same is true of other forms of 
literature ; for the magnetic influence in both in- 
stances is artistic ability. Mr. Trollope's erudi- 
tion is praiseworthy to a degree ; yet his manner 
of imparting it is ponderous. 

H. C. Chatfield-Taylor. 



MiiiiTAitY Criticism of the Late Wak.* 



The tendencies of advancing civilization are 
all against the settlement of international ques- 
tions by force of arms. The energies of humanity 
are now for peace rather than for war. Never- 
theless, a conflict at arms will always have fasci- 
nation for the intellect of man, because the play 
of forces is so great, the theatre so vast, the 
human interest so compelling, and the influences 
so far-reaching, that, despite those aspects from 
which humanity would avert its gaze, the trained 
mind will love to dweU upon the elements in the 
problem and long to foretell the outcome. Every 
man is more or less of a prophet, and those out- 
side the game are even more eager to foretell 
the outcome than the players themselves. 

When diplomacy dropped its pen, in Febru- 
ary, 1904, and war imsheathed the sword, it was 
positively comical to listen to the vaticinations 
of so-called experts at Washington, Berlin, and 
Paris. Mighty generals and admirals, versed in 
the dogmatics of Occidental ballistics and har- 
dened in the orthodoxy of their schools, forthwith 
proceeded to tell exactly what would happen. 
The old story of believing in things because they 
were big, was repeated. It was the usual routine 
of ready-made philosophy without a knowledge 
of new facts, and of prediction without any basis 
of history. Yet, all the way through, it was a 
game of the unknown. Of Russia, tradition had 

• The Wak in the Fab East. By the Military Correspondent 
of " The Times." Illustrated. New York: E. P. Dutton & C3o. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL, 



195 



made much. It was supposed that our knowl- 
edge of Czartlom was tolerably complete ; but 
with the whole body of Occidental conceit and 
ignorance of Oriental Asia set rock-fast in the 
ideas of '' white-manism," it was an article of 
faith that Japan must be defeated in spite of 
some initial successes. Nevertheless, those of the 
noble five thousand who between 1868 and 1900, 
in the early days of Japan's awakening, had 
served as schoolmasters, technicists, or instruc- 
tors in any line of Japan's multifarious activities, 
had no fears. They did not " prophesy " very 
much ; they did not " predict "; they simply told 
what they saw. They knew what Meckel and 
Douglas had taught Oyama and Togo. They 
knew, too, that it was not " yesterday " when the 
Japanese began to leam. They recalled that the 
Dutch at Deshima, from 1630 to 1868, had fer- 
tilized the Japanese intellect during all the time 
of her so-called seclusion, and that long before 
Perry had come to Japan there were awakened 
spirits and alert reformers. These from 1868 
have controlled the palace and the mind of the 
god that dwells therein. The seeing ones knew 
also that however diligent or brilliant were the 
teachers, the pupils were even more so. They 
felt, moreover, that the Japanese realized that 
this was a fight for food, for growth, for life. 
They were persuaded also that the spirit of the 
Samurai and " the virtues of the Emperor " had, 
after thirty-five years of public-school training, 
been transfused into the common people. So, 
with the military system that was German in its 
thoroughness and Yamato in its spirit, the Ja- 
panese, after fifty years of historic propaedeutic 
and ten years of special preparation, rushed with 
eagerness to the fray. No David ever went 
more assuredly to victory than the Japanese. 
Nevertheless, however much or in whomsoever 
or whatsoever they trusted, they kept their Shi- 
mose powder dry. 

Now we have a critical estimate of the detailed 
operations of the war, written by the capable 
military correspondent of the London " Times." 
Let no one buy this book thinking that he is 
going to get a consecutive narrative, or a picto- 
rial presentation of the various conflicts. No ; 
this book is magnificent, but it is hot a story. 
Let us look at it outwardly, and then appraise 
its inward contents. Take it for what some may 
think it to be, and it wiU yield disappointment 
and even wrath. Head it for what it purports 
to express and actually is, and it will be foimd 
to have hardly a peer in its class of literature, 
and probably will have no equal or successor 
for many years. 



Through some 700 pages, with a few illustra^ 
tations of the leading promoters of or actors 
in the great drama, and what is virtually a 
complete portfolio of maps and plans up to the 
Mukden operations, with a diary of the war, an 
order of battle of the Russian forces, with only 
a paragraph on the Japanese system, a conspec- 
tus of the fleets in February and in May of 
1905, and a capital index, we have chiefly 
crticism, criticism, criticism. Day by day as 
the correspondent saw the situation, as repre- 
sented by one railroad, two fleets, two armies, so 
many sabres, bayonets, and guns, with a knowl- 
edge of the power of both the Russian and the 
Japanese stomach to consume rations and of the 
ability of hosts of war-locusts to devastate the 
land, we have pictures in words and diagrams of 
what is more like a game of chess than a series 
of events and episodes. 

Here is an array of mathematical units rather 
than of human beings. There is no blood on 
these pages ; one hears no cry of the wounded, 
and looks into no ghastly battle-trenches. We 
find rather a cold-blooded and for the most part 
accurate account of collisions of opposing forces. 
He who wishes to leam the science of modem 
war must read this book. One word tells the 
story, — training. One word dominates the situ- 
ation, — science. One word links initiative with 
consummation in the chain of success, — art. 
The Japanese have never let up for an instant 
during the past decade. They wrested the secrets 
of power from the West, a whole generation ago, 
and then with a faculty for adaptation amounting 
to genius they made the art, which comes from 
a mastered science and as expressed in training, 
tell at every point. Continuous victories, a hun- 
dred thousand prisoners against two thousand, 
the conquest of disease and wounds in the hos- 
pital even more than supremacy over the enemy 
in battle, and, grandest of all, seK-conquest at 
the treaty council, all show the superiority of 
the Japanese. 

It is needless to go into the details of this book. 
The author dwells on the outlook for either side 
when the war broke out, and outlines all the 
movements until his fiftieth chapter winds up 
the long dithyramb (we call it so, for aU glory is 
ascribed to the Mikado) of continuous success 
with the appropriate " Nunc Dimittis." Just 
how the Russian camel could not get through 
the eye of the Siberian needle is the negative 
proposition herein fxdly explained. But lest the 
reader might think the " Times" critic has no 
descriptive power, let us quote from the author's 
view of the blue- water battle of mid- August: 



196 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



" When at last the giants [the battleships] came out 
and gave battle, the other classes of warships resumed 
at once the very secondary place which they legitimately 
hold in fleet action. The Russian cruisers fled and scat- 
tered. ... It was superior gunnery and rapid accurate 
fire that decided the day. Those three twelve-inch 
shells that struck the Tsarevitch, within a few minutes 
of each other, wrecked the Russian line of battle. 
The flag-ship was no longer under control, and, worse 
of all, the death of Admiral Vithoft deprived the line 
of guidance. The supremacy of the gun, and of the 
heaviest gun most of all, becomes overwhelmingly 
manifest." 

No notice of this book would be just that 
leaves out high praise of the forty maps and 
battle plans by Mr. Percy Fisher. While critical 
knowledge of the country traversed and fought 
over will illuminate the masses of red and blue 
which seem to move over the brown spaces rep- 
resenting hills and the white representing plains, 
with the black threads standing for rivers, yet 
these diagrams are superb from the point of 
view of one who knows the difficulty of making 
a good battle-plan. The maps are all that 
could be desired. For its special purpose, this 
book is of unique value. 

William Elliot Griffis. 



The Old, Uxtroubled Pagan World.* 

Under the title "The Greek View of Life" 
Mr. G. Lowes Dickinson has put forth a sym- 
pathetic interpretation for which he deserves the 
thanks of all readers who believe in the desira- 
bility of an historical basis for the pursuit of the 
things that are more excellent. " The following 
pages are intended to serve as a general introduc- 
tion to Greek literature and thought, for those 
primarily who do not know Greek" is the open- 
ing of a modest preface to a well-balanced and 
well- written book from the hands of a competent 
author. It is true that Mr. Dickinson is an 
avowed philhellene, who believes that Greek cul- 
ture " is still, as it has been in the past, the most 
valuable element of a liberal education," and 
has been both acclaimed and derided as an apos- 
tle of the neo-Paganism about which we have 
heard so much of late. It is to him that Mr. 
Gilbert Chesterton devotes his essay on " Pagan- 
ism" — perhaps the most meteoric flight of 
brilliant pertness in the "Heretics" volume, — 
speaking of him as " the most pregnant and 
provocative of recent writers on this and similar 
subjects," and arraigning him as the mislead- 
ing advocate of a return to a misunderstood 

•The Gbeek View of Life. By G. Lowes Dickinson, M.A. 
New York : McClure, Phillips & Co. 



Paganism. In the present work, however, Mr. 
Dickinson must appear to a fair critic not as a 
partisan but as a sane and able interpreter with 
a pardonable dash of enthusiasm. 

The book has five chapters, — (I.) The Greek 
View of Keligion, (H.) The Greek View of the 
State, (III.) The Greek View of the Individual, 
(IV.) The Greek View of Art, (V.) Conclu- 
sion. Each chapter has its divisions carefully 
planned and succinctly treated, and concludes 
with a usefid summary. In this way the author 
touches most topics of importance. But one 
omission is immediately noticed and regretted : 
there is no adequate or consecutive presentation 
of the Greek love of knowledge. This formed 
the subject of the third, I think, of Dr. Butcher's 
recent Harvard lectures; and readers of The 
Dial wiU recaU also Mr. Percy F. BickneU's 
article on "The Greek Love of Detail" (Oct. 
16, 1905). "The Greeks are ever children," 
said Herodotus, — anticipating Dr. Stanley 
Hall's declaration that the Greeks represent the 
"eternally adolescent," but wording it rather 
better, — and they went about with the open 
eyes of bright children questioning everything 
and everybody merely for the sake of knowing ; 
and many of their questions are still on our lips. 
However, Mr. Dickinson doubtless felt the limi- 
tations of space, and on the whole has used his 
two hundred and thirty-three pages admirably. 

The world to which the author invites our 
attention is the "old, untroubled, pagan world 
of beauty," and herein he manifests the same 
spirit with which he pleaded so winningly for the 
substance against the shadow in his remarkable 
" Letters of a Chinese Official," who, by the way, 
has many strange points of resemblance to an 
Athenian gentleman. In this world, if we may 
trust our interpreter, harmony was the truth of 
all existence ; the claims of the State, of art, 
of religion, and of the individual with his human 
cravings, claims which clash and clang in such 
disheartening discord to-day, were more nearly 
harmonized in ancient Greece than in the history 
of any other land. That the harmony was in- 
complete even in that golden age our author is 
too intelligent to deny and too honest to dis- 
semble. One finds now and then a Greek coin 
on which a glorious obverse is joined to an un- 
sightly reverse, and Mr. Dickinson in displaying 
the latter exhibits an honesty that wins at once 
our respect and our confidence. In the sec- 
tions, for instance, dealing with the Greek view 
of woman he does not blink the fact that the 
attitude of the Periclean or the Demosthenic age 
is strikingly suggestive of Japan in its less at- 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



197 



tractive phases. Again, in the paragraphs on 
the Greek view of the State his devotion to his 
land of charm does not prevent him from giv- 
ing an adequate treatment of the faction and 
anarchy so rampant in Greek politics. Orange 
and Green in Ireland's most pugnacious days 
were doves of peace compared to Democrat and 
Aristocrat in many cities of Greece. What 
Athens represents to him is sho^vn by this sen- 
tence : " All the beauty, all the grace, all the 
joy of Greece ; all that chains the desire of man- 
kind, with a yearning that is never stilled, to 
that one golden moment in the past, whose fair 
and balanced interplay of perfect flesh and 
sold no later gains of thought can compensate, 
centres about that bright and stately city of 
romance, the home of Pericles and all the 
arts, whence from generation to generation has 
streamed upon ages less illustrious an influence 
at once the sanest and the most inspired of all 
that have shaped the secular history of the 
world." And yet in the same section he teUs 
us that " this democracy dissolved into an an- 
archy of individuals, drawn deeper and deeper, 
in pursuit of mean and egotistic ends, into po- 
litical fraud and commercial chicanery." Hon- 
esty of presentation could go no further. 

The sentence quoted above in laudation of 
Athens will serve as an illustration of the " par- 
donable dash of enthusiasm " in our author. 
Only once or twice does this enthusiasm draw 
near the borderland of extravagance ; but even 
the warmest admirer of Greek plastic art will 
read the following passage slowly before yielding 
his approval : " Their mere household crockery, 
their common pots and pans, are cast in shapes 
so exquisitely graceful, and painted in designs 
so atlmirably drawn and composed, that any one 
of them has a higher artistic value than the whole 
contents of the Royal Academy ; and the little 
clay figures they used as we do china ornaments 
put to shame the most ambitious efforts of mod- 
em sculpture. Who, for example, would not 
rather look at a Tanagra statuette than at the 
equestrian statue of the Duke of Wellington ? " 
But after all, has not William Morris stood 
champion for the lesser crafts, for the beauty of 
the web, the cup, or the knife, telling us how all 
the arts hang together, and summoning us to 
f oUow the goddess to the kitchen as well as to the 
art gallery ? That the Greeks " were artists 
through and through, quite apart from any the- 
ories they may have held," we are not allowed 
to forget at any point in the chapter on Art, in 
which the sections dealing with the Greek iden- 
tification of the aesthetic and ethical points of 



view and with music and the dance will be f oimd 
particularly fruitful for the reader not thoroughly 
at home in Greek life and thought. 

It is really difficult to take leave of our Cam- 
bridge essayist, and one would like to speak of 
many things, — of his style, for instance, now 
and then deepening to the genuine Tyrian hue, 
but never patchy ; of his quiet literary appreci- 
ation ; of his little touch of rather lovable pes- 
simism as he dwells on his theme with the 
thought that "no perfection of life delivers 
from death"; of his realization that the Greek 
view of death and a future life breathes but 
little consolation. " The fear of age and death 
is the shadow of the love of life ; and on no peo- 
ple has it fallen with more horror than on the 
Greeks. The tenderest of their songs of love 
close with a sob, and it is an autumn wind that 
rustles in their bowers of spring." These and 
many other topics insist on presenting them- 
selves ; but they must be left for the many 
readers that this excellent book deserves to find. 
" The Greek View of Life" ought to stimidate 
a real interest in a period that invariably fasci- 
nates our eyes if we we will turn them but once 
to " the fairest and happiest halting-place in the 
secular march of men." 

The material book presents a pleasing appear- 
ance, and is of convenient size. The printed page 
is legible, and there is comparative freedom 
from typographical slips, although on page 122 
the substitution of as for at is very irritating, 
particularly in a third edition. In these days 
of " eye-mindedness "and the constant purveying 
thereto, Mr. Dickinson and his publishers are 
to be commended for resisting the temptation 
to improve his little work with illustrations. 
F. B. R. Hellems. 



Brtefs ox N'ew Books. 

It must seem strange to the general 
Auitraiiaand reader to find volumes on Australia 
the Philippines, ^jj^ t^g Philippine Islands included 
in the "Asiatic Neighbors" series ( Putnam), even 
though the native stock of the Philippines is Ma- 
layan, the typical brown man of the Asiatic seas and 
their confines. Australia has been an English colony 
since 1788, and the Philippines were Spanish colo- 
nial possessions for more than three centimes before 
becoming subject to American influence. Both have 
been more closely related to Europe than to Asia, 
though nearer to Asiatic than to European coasts. 
However, one ought not to be captious about the 
series in which such admirable books as the present 
ones are included. In "Australian Life in Town 
and Coimtry," Mr. E. C. Buley, an Australian by 



198 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



birth as well as by other ties, exhibits Australia as a 
continent, not only in the extent of its territory (three 
million square miles >, but in comprising a number 
of states, with a goodly amount of mutual jealousy, 
though united under a Federal Constitution ; having 
several important cities, though its entire population 
is little more than half that of the city of London ; 
maintaining relations with England somewhat re- 
moved from the conventional love for "the dear old 
Mother Country"; and having some aspirations after 
national life, fostered by the "Australian Natives' 
Association." He does not recognize Botany Bay or 
the penal settlement as having influenced the life and 
development of the continent. A convict settlement 
was no part of the plan of the early advocates of colo- 
nization in Australia, though the 26th of January, 
the date when Captain Phillip landed, in 1788, at 
Port Jackson with the first load of convicts, is now 
annually observed by Australians as ''Anniversary 
Day." The real development of Australia began 
with Captain John MacArthur, who, with sure in- 
stinct in agricultural and pastoral matters, seems to 
have grasped the possibilities of the Australian con- 
tinent immediately upon his arrival. The pastoral 
industry which he introduced led to exploration and 
the development of various branches of agriculture. 
Gold was discovered in 1851 ; but the greatest factor 
in the development of the resources of the country 
was the experiment in the ocean carriage of perish- 
able produce, by which in one year Australia sold 
one hundred millions worth of produce in excess of 
her purchases. The book deals most entertainingly 
with Australian life, and is well illustrated. — Mr. 
James A. Le Roy's " Philippine Life in Town and 
Country " differs in style from the other volumes of 
the series, and has many advantages over the vast 
number of books upon the Philippines which have 
appeared in the English language since 1898. It 
was found impossible for the author to divide the 
life of the Philippines, as he has seen it, into urban 
and rural. Mr. Le Roy is qualified to write of the 
Philippines, both by a previous experience with the 
Spanish Americans, and by virtue of his connection 
with the United States Philippine Commission dwc- 
ing the establishment of civil government in the 
islands. Yet he writes with no intention of main- 
taining any particular theory, or of supporting any 
policy with regard to the " Philippine question " which 
enters so largely into the politics of our country to- 
day. In his pictures of the life of the " Filipinos " 
(whom he defines as the Christianized inhabitants 
of the islands as distinct from the Moros or Moham- 
medan Malays of the southern regions), he quotes 
largely from the novels of Jos^ Rizal, a native lit^ 
terateur and political martyr. Some entirely new 
photographs of scenes in the islands illustrate the 

volume. 

Mecordsofa ^he goodly size of Mr. Edmund 
naturalist in Selous's volume called " The Bird 
the Shetland,. Watcher in the Shetlands" (Dutton) 
is a temptation to the uninitiated to ask what there 
is in that barren region to write so much about. But 



whoever gives himself the pleasure of letting Mr. 
Selous tell him will straightway be ashamed of his 
skepticism. In the first place the author is convinc- 
ingly in love with his subject — even with those 
"desolate and wind-swept isles" where November 
comes in August, and the sea never sleeps. " Would 
God my home were here," he exclaims, "that I might 
make a life-long and continuous study of the wild 
sea-bird life about me ! " — and he adds, " Oh, is there 
anything in life more piquant (if you care about it) 
than to lie on the summit of a beetling cliff, and 
watch the breeding sea-fowl on the ledges below ! " 
Contagious as this enthusiasm is, however, it is the 
excellence of his watching that gives the greatest 
value to his book. Mr. Selous believes with Darwin 
that " every creature is ready to alter his habits, as 
the opportunity arises, and the greater number of 
them are, in some way or another, always in process 
of doing so." Consequently his observations, always 
patient, loving, and interesting, often have a further 
point in recording variations from accepted for- 
mulae. Many of these discoveries seem insignificant ; 
others, it is more than likely, may lead the way to 
important results. In any event, the definiteness of 
the records is delightful. The coloring of the Arctic 
skua, fifteen variations of which are carefully dis- 
tinguished ; the cuddling of the guillemot chick under 
its mother's wing; the flight of the fulmar petrel 
which "suggests a soul," while other birds are only 
bodies ; the sporting of a young seal with a spar of 
wood (for the sub-title of the book promises "some 
notes on seals"); and the manners of "Falstaff," the 
big seal who " expatiates " luxuriously upon his rock 
" with such great yawns, such stretchings, heavings, 
and throwings back of the head, with supple curv- 
ings of the neck ! " — all these and more are vivid 
enough to the reader to become an appreciable part 
of life. The fine scorn of civilization on which 
they are embossed adds further zest to them. "To 
me," Mr. Selous says, " a live snake is much more 
interesting than a live man or woman." He clings 
to this preference good-naturedly, amusingly, until 
he speaks of the cruelty of men to animals ; then 
his scorn bites and stings. " They conquer, these 
Philistines, and the finer-touched spirit lies bleeding 
and suffering beneath them. — I say that the ' pale 
Galilean ' has not conquered here, but that Thor has, 
though often in his rival's name." The only real 
fault of the book — unless account is taken of some 
obvious inaccuracies of style — lies in the illustra- 
tions, which are taken from drawings altogether too 
much " made up," instead of from photographs, as 
any American is bound to think they should have 

been. 

The task of collating and editing the 
abundant materials existing for an 
adequate history of Trinity Parish in 
the city of New York, undertaken by the Rev. Mor- 
gan Dix,S.T.D.,D.C.L., ninth rector of said parish, 
bore its first fruit in 1898, in a large and handsome 
volume setting forth the history of the parish from 
1686 to the close of the rectorship of Dr. Inglis in 



A famous 
Bishop and 
his work. 



1906.] 



THE DIAI. 



199 



1783. That volume was somewhat fully reviewed 
in these columns at the time of its publication, as 
the history of Trinity Church during the period cov- 
ered was to a large extent the history of New York 
City and province, and of far wider than merely 
parochial interest. After an interval of three years, 
a second volume appeared, bringing the history down 
to the close of Dr. Moore's rectorship in 1816. This 
volume also received due notice in these columns. 
It was then supposed that a third volume would suf- 
fice to cover the rectorial terms of Dr. Hobart and 
Dr. Berrian, the seventh and eighth rectors, and to 
conclude the labors of Dr Dix as editor. The third 
volume which now appears (Putnam) but partially 
fulfils the expectation of the completion of the history, 
principally because of the discovery of a large mass 
of letters containing so much of interest and of im- 
portance in the history of Trinity Parish as to de- 
mand considerable attention. This volume is there- 
fore devoted to the rectorship of Dr. Hobart to the 
year 1830 ; and a fourth volume will be required to 
treat of the rectorate of Dr. Berrian. John Henry 
Hobart was a man of great prominence in his day. 
He was a native of Philadelphia, in which city he 
began his ministry. He was but a short time settled 
over churches in New Brunswick, New Jersey, and 
Hempstead, Long Island, before he was elected an 
assistant rector in Trinity Church, New York, in 
1800. He became Secretary of the Diocese of New 
York, and was some time Secretary of the House of 
Deputies of the General Convention. When con- 
secrated Assistant Bishop of New York in 1811. 
there were but six bishops of the Episcopal Church 
in America. In 1816, by the death of Bishop Moore, 
he became Bishop of the Diocese, and the same year 
was elected rector of Trinity Church. His relations 
to Trinity Church by no means restricted the sphere 
of his influence. He was temporarily in charge of 
the Dioceses of Connecticut and New Jersey, and 
had the general oversight of the church in the West- 
ern Reserve. He was influential in the establish- 
ment of the General Theological Seminary of 
Geneva (now Hobart) College, and of the Church 
press in this country. He carried the gospel to the 
Oneida Indians, and awakened the Church to the 
needs of missionary efforts in what was then con- 
sidered the far West. He was a man of strong 
convictions, and the phrases "the Gospel in the 
Church " and *' Evangelical Truth and Apostolic 
Order " are associated with his name. He was some- 
what of a controversialist, and one of his opponents 
in a once famous controversy was so impressed with 
his ability that he declared, " Were I compelled to 
entrust the safety of my country to any one man, 
that man should be John Henry Hobart." The 
editor of the history of Trinity Parish has wisely 
embraced the opportunity afforded by the connection 
of such a man with that important parish, to publish 
a careful selection from the more than three thou- 
sand letters known as the " Hobart Correspondence." 
So far from this giving to the present volume the 
character of a personal memoir of the famous Bishop, 



it is a valuable contribution to the history of the 
Diocese of New York, of the Protestant Episcopal 
Church, and of the times in which Hobart lived ; and 
it gives to the third volume of this series an inter- 
est like that of the first and second volumes, far 
wider than the limits of a parish, albeit the largest 
and most influential parish in the land. 



Umbria and iu ^he past year has produced a remark- 
foremost figure, able number of books about the 
Saint FrancU. g^all but fascinating region of Italy 
known as Umbria, and about Umbria's foremost 
fig^e, St. Francis. Two late additions to the list 
are Miss Emma G. Salter's " Franciscan Legends in 
Italian Art" (Dutton), and Mr. Edward Hutton's 
"The Cities of Umbria" (Dutton). The distin- 
guishing feature of the former work is its very com- 
plete classified lists of everything in art connected 
with the life of St. Francis, even those pictures and 
statues which, though not great as works of art, are 
yet extremely interesting to Franciscan students. 
Pictures of the saint began to be made as early as 
the thirteenth century, and are usually to be found 
in rather out-of-the-way places, such as Greccio, 
Subiaco, Pescia, etc. Not the least valuable por- 
tions of Miss Salter's book are the few pages of 
" Practical Hints " for the traveller, showing him 
how to reach these places. An opportunity is often 
missed by the traveller, even when close at hand, 
because of the lack of just such practical knowledge 
as this. Tradition says that the Greccio picture was 
painted from life for a friend ; but whether it was 
or not, the type of face of St. Francis, his dress 
and symbols, make him one of the most easily recog- 
nizable figures in Italian art. As frontispiece to 
this volume, the author has selected Raphael's repre- 
sentation from the left-hand corner of his famous 
Madonna di Foligno in the Vatican Gallery at 
Rome. — Mr. Hutton divides his book into three 
parts : " Impressions of the Cities of Umbria," " The 
Umbrian School of Painting, " and "Umbria Mystica." 
How thoroughly the author is under the speU that 
affects all who dwell long enough in Umbria, may be 
judged from such a passage as this, from the chapter 
on Spoleto : " I came to her in an evil mood, hating 
my f eUow-men and especially the tourist ; I left her 
after a long time, refreshed and rested, at peace with 
all men, having understood her beauty and her joy. 
. . . Climb up to the great Roman aqueduct that 
spans the profound ravine which isolates Spoleto on 
her round hill, and at evening look across the val- 
leys to the hUls and the mountains ; that luminous 
softness, a delicacy so magical that you had thought 
only the genius of Raphael or Perugino could im- 
agine and express it, is just reality." In the division 
devoted to Umbrian painting, the author has well 
characterized its profound and delightful sentiment 
as distinguished from the intellectual travail of the 
Florentines or the magnificent acceptance of life of 
the Venetians. In "Umbria Mystica," St. Francis 
is of coiu^e the chief figure, though Joachim di Flore, 
St. Clare, Brother Bernard, and Brother Elias are 



200 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



Hie civic 
awakening in 
America. 



treated also. Sabatier's monumental work on St. 
Francis is criticized as showing limitations due to 
the fact that this biographer is a Frenchman and 
not a Catholic. Of the thirty-two illustrations in this 
volume, twenty are in color, and are of great beauty. 
Taking both matter and manner into consideration, 
Mr. Button's book is perhaps the most exhaustive 
and attractive of the long list of Umbrian books of 

the past year. 

Refreshingly interesting is Professor 
Charles Zueblin's little volume en- 
titled "A Decade of Civic Develop- 
ment" (University of Chicago Press), consisting of 
nine essays reprinted from " The Chautauquan," and 
in a way a supplement to the author's " American 
Municipal Progress " published some years ago. In 
content the book is a record of civic development 
and progress in the United States during the past 
ten years, with suggestions for many new lines of 
improvement. The spirit of optimism pervades the 
entire work, and certainly the facts which Professor 
Zueblin marshals abundantly prove his thesis that 
American cities are rapidly becoming more attrac- 
tive and fit for the homes of the millions. The 
agencies which are contributing to the civic trans- 
formation are social settlements, university extension 
schemes, free lecture courses, municipal art societies, 
recreation schools, movements for the establishment 
of parks, playgrounds, and free libraries, and vari- 
ous municipal and private organizations. We are 
now entering upon a period of " civic awakening," 
he says ; a new "civic spirit" is spreading as never 
before, and a new conception of public responsibility 
is taking possession of the minds of the people who 
dwell in cities. The duty of training the citizen 
for life in a democracy is also coming to be more 
generally appreciated, and as a result many semi- 
educational movements are now contributing to the 
development of higher civic ideals. With increasing 
prosperity have come leisure and culture, and these 
in turn have conduced to social and municipal re- 
form. Less attention is being given to political 
methods and machinery, and more to municipal 
improvements. The housing of the people, the 
adornment and beautification of the streets with 
monuments and fountains, the creation of archi- 
tectural unity, and the laying out of new parks are 
some of the problems to which the "new spirit" 
has given rise. Professor Zueblin's account of the 
"remaking" of Chicago, Harrisburg, Boston, New 
York, and Washington is a record of municipal 
progress which no one can read without a sense of 
civic pride and a feeling of hope for the future. 
Deplorable as is the condition of many cities, says 
the author, the record of progress in the decade is a 
proud one, and compels the belief that the cities 

will be redeemed. 

"It is said that a man must needs 
build three houses before he will 
have one to suit him," remarks Mr. 
Charles Edward Hooper in the preface to his volume 
about "The Cotmtry House" (Doubleday, Page & 



27ie countrv 
house and how 
to build it. 



Co.). The book is an attempt to save the would-be 
builder from such expensive and annoying prelim- 
inaries by giving him a clear idea both of the diffi- 
culties he should avoid and the beauties he may 
attain to. Mr. Hooper begins by giving special 
advice about the choice of a site. General consider- 
ations governing the selection of the plan are next 
discussed, and there is a detailed account of the 
proper way of putting up a house under varying 
conditions, and of finishing it outside and in. Next 
Mr. Hooper turns his attention to details, such as 
doors, windows, and fire-places. He has something 
to say about each room in the house, making endless 
suggestions for variety of treatment. Next he 
attacks the problems of heating, lighting, ventilation, 
and plumbing. A chapter on " Water-Supply and 
Drainage" discusses these important matters from 
a practical point of view, and also considers various 
artistic disguises for wells and wind-mills. Out- 
buildings, gate-ways, and the garden with its acces- 
sories are all duly considered. There are specimen 
contracts for the enlightenment of the inexperienced 
builder, and any details not previously disposed of 
are brought together in a final chapter entitled 
" Hints." Prices and architects' names are attached 
to most of the illustrations, thus adding to their 
practical value. JEsthetically, the illustrations are 
of course a decided feature. There are a great 
many of them, and the photographer, Mr. E. E. 
Loderholtz, has shown skill in treating his subjects 
in such a way that the points of the text are always 
made clear without sacrificing the beauty of the 
pictures. To people who are not looking forward 
to building a country home, Mr. Hooper's book will 
be interesting as showing what has been done in that 
direction in America; in the end it will probably 
inspire them with a great desire to carry out some 
of Mr. Hooper's suggestions. Intending builders 
cannot fail to profit by reading the book, — except 
in one respect : it offers so many enticing hints for 
elaborating and beautifying the house and grounds 
in unusual ways that, though the house when built 
may exactly suit its owner, it will probably cost him 
a good deal more than it would before he realized 
the full possibilities of " The Country House." 

Observations of The bright talk of a witty and observ- 
an English . tj i -ji p 

husband's ^^^ woman, gitted With a sense oi 

American wife, humor, is always worth listening to; 
and even when it is addressed to the general public 
through the medium of print, it need lose little or 
none of its fine quality. Mrs. John Lane's "The 
Champagne Standard " (John Lane Co. ) treats 
lightly and briskly of her domestic and society expe- 
riences upon removing, as she and her husband 
recently did, from New York to London. The ser- 
vant problem, domestic architectxu'e, the fight with 
London smoke and smut, the hide-bound conserva- 
tism of our English cousins, and various other topics 
suggested by her new surroundings, are handled in 
an entertaining and often amusing manner. The 
reader may perhaps wonder, on reading Mrs. Lane's 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



201 



Iliad of domestic woes, why this energetic New 
England woman ( she appears to be Boston-bred ) sub- 
mitted to such martyrdom at the hands of her bond- 
women. With a family of two only, why not assert 
one's American independence, dismiss the retinue of 
supercilious and at the same time sycophantic serving- 
folk, and enjoy the dignity and freedom of one's God- 
given self-sufficiency — even at the risk of British 
stares and frowns ? The chain that fetters the slave 
at one end is bound to the master at the other. Oidy 
those worries fret us for which we have an affinity. 
Nothing but our own can come to us. ]SIrs. Lane 
is worthy of better things than kitchen squabbles, as 
her pen has already proved. Of things one might 
criticize, if critically inclined, are Mrs. Lane's asser- 
tion that " the days have passed in America for the 
making of sudden and great fortunes," her calling 
the whale a fish, and speaking of " a protoplasm " as 
if it were a form of animal or vegetable life, her 
occasional use (despite her Boston training) of wiU 
for shall and of would for should, and her indulgence 
in such looseness of sentence-structure as this, — " It 
is, therefore, rather startling, as a blushing stranger, 
to see the loving couples that emerge out of the leafy 
paths of Kensington Glarden. . . ." On the other 
hand, we must commend her freedom from Anglo- 
mania, and her censure of such follies of English 
conservatism as the insistence that no woman, how- 
ever old, shall be considered fully dressed unless she 
be entirely undressed as to neck and shoulders. 
With the passing of good Queen Victoria, let this 
particular item of court usage, so dear to her other- 
wise compassionate heart, pass also, and let the 
shivering shoulders be clothed. 

When the great Italian scholar, Pro- 
IS^ZH^tgo." lessor Ettore Pais, published his 

Roman History, about seven years 
ago, the world of classical scholarship experienced 
a profound and somewhat unpleasant sensation. The 
Storia di Roma is primarily a criticism of the 
earlier sources ; and after the author has thoroughly 
sifted them, practically nothing remains. Every- 
thing handed down from the regal period, with most 
of what is credited to the first century of the repub- 
lic, is swept into the rubbish-heap of historic myth 
and legend. It is readily seen that a work of such 
a destructive character would encounter hostile criti- 
cism on every side. But the unsympathetic attitude 
of conservative scholars seems merely to have spurred 
the author on to a more detailed investigation of his 
subject ; and he now gives us what seems to be a 
reply to his critics, in a volume of about three hun- 
dred pages bearing the title, " Ancient Legends of 
Roman History" (Dodd, Mead & Co.). The vol- 
ume is mainly a collection of essays, " special and 
minute demonstrations of subjects already succinctly 
treated " in the author's earlier work. As a rule, 
each chapter is devoted to the examination of some 
well-known tale, such as the story of Tarpeia or the 
legend of the Horatii. From a close and untiring 
study of the most diverse sources, — myths, ancient 



colts, archaeological remains, etymological data, 
classical authors, and Roman topography, — Profes- 
sor Pais has brought together a mass of materials 
of a most bewildering character, which he builds 
into an argument that seems almost irrefutable. It 
will be found, however, that in many instances he 
claims more weight for his evidence than his critics 
are likely to allow. Throughout the work, he nudn- 
tains his earlier negative position; but he also tries 
to give his studies a positive value by attempting to 
explain how the myths originated, tracing a number 
of them back to Italian worship. "Lucretia and 
Virginia, in origin two goddesses, became mere 
mortals ; Vulcan was changed into the lame and 
one-eyed Horatius Codes ; . . . the god Minucius 
was transformed into a tribxme of the people." Such 
conclusions are not likely to be accepted without dis- 
pute, although most who read them will agree that 
every chapter is the work of a master. The English 
version is by the author's countryman, Mario E. 
Cosenza. While in the main satisfactory, it fre- 
quently lacks in point of clearness, the involved 
parenthetical structure of the sentences making it 
difficult at times to follow the author's arg^ument. 

A book of •^' '^^^'1^' Symons's prose work is 

inuiginarv always strikingly individual. Indeed 

portrait*. g^ little kinship has it with current 

modes that it is perhaps best described in critical 
slang as "precious." His latest volume is called 
" Spiritual Adventures " (Dutton), and is dedicated, 
not unfittingly, to Mr. Thomas Hardy. In order to 
enjoy it, one must have a strong taste for analysis, for 
intricate psychological problems, for self-revelation 
so searching as to be decidedly foreign to the Anglo- 
Saxon temper. The first sketch in the book, "A 
Prelude to Life," is written in autobiographic form, 
and detaUs the experiences — whether real or imagi- 
nary only Mr. Symons can tell — of the author's 
childhood. Its uniqueness consists in its bald frank- 
ness, its utter freedom from reserve, its absolute lack 
of glamour. There is no rose-color in the recollec- 
tion. He remembers that he was indifferent to his 
father. " He never interested me," he says coldly. 
His mother seems to have been his one friend, for 
he either despised or disliked his teachers and school- 
mates, and hated the "commonplace, middle-class 
people " among whom his family lived. He loved 
music passionately, and books; but he discovered 
Humanity only aifter reading "Lavengro," which 
sent him gypsying. Eventually he went to London 
and found there the strong sense of life that he had 
sought in vain before. He admits to being a vain, 
selfish, and idle child, and then he snaps the " Pre- 
lude " off short without giving the least hint of 
how the queer boy grew up to manhood. The next 
sketch lays bare the inner consciousness of a Jewish 
garment-worker who becomes a great actress. Others 
trace the spiritual experiences of a mad musician, 
of a realistic painter who found it necessary to live 
the sordid life of his models, of a minister beset by 
doubts of the gospel he taught, and of half a dozen 



202 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



others. Most of the " experiences " are trag^ic ; all 
are thoroughly subjective and tantalizingly incom- 
plete. Indeed one wonders whether it is by intention 
or chance that Mr. Symons always keeps back the 
salient point of the story. His skill in analysis must 
be admitted, and his command of telling epithet and 
of a certain poetic, though wholly undramatic, charm. 
But his very cleverness and facility make it more to 
be regretted that he has wasted his time in portrai- 
ture, brilliant but without significance, of subjects 
that are hardly worthy of such distinction. 

The latest, and let us hope the last. 

An uncrowned exploitation of the royal marriage of 
Enalish queen. ..^^ ^r. i i ^ • i i .i 

Mrs. r itzherbert is a volume by the 

late W. H. Wilkins entitled " Mrs. Fitzherbert and 
George IV." (Longmans, Green, & Co.). The au- 
thor has been an accomplished defender of unhappy 
queens, Mrs. Fitzherbert being the fourth whose 
career he has chronicled. His undertaking has had 
the full cooperation of Mrs. Fitzherbert's family, 
who have freely loaned portraits, letters, and other 
documents to the end that the biography might be 
complete. The publishers have done their part by 
producing a liandsomely bound, well printed, and 
lavishly illustrated volume. In addition to his able 
manipulation of materials and lively style of narra- 
tion, Mr. Wilkins was fortunate enough to secure a 
privilege stubbornly withheld from previous chron- 
iclers ; he was given the King's gracious permission 
to see and to quote from the famous Fitzherbert 
papers. These, it will be recalled, Mrs. Fitzherbert 
placed at Coutts's Bank in 1833, with the specific 
purpose of vindicating her character, exactly when 
or how she did not determine. From them the fact 
of her marriage with George, Prince of Wales, is 
proved beyond a doubt, and the famous controversy 
is happily settled, — not, however, at all to Prince 
George's credit. The marriage is naturally the 
pivotal point of the book. Very little space is de- 
voted to the previous life of Mrs. Fitzherbert, and 
afterwards the varying status of the marriage and of 
the Prince's devotion to her was of course the chief 
consideration, both to the lady herself and to the 
gossiping public. Mr. Wilkins has nothing but praise 
for Mrs. Fitzherbert, who is represented as acting 
throughout her intercourse with the Prince in a 
maimer uniformly to her credit. George's life and 
character are touched upon only in the aspects in 
•which they affected Mrs. Fitzherbert. 

" The Elements of Sociology " ( Mac- 
t!loHologv. millan), by Professor Frank W. 

Blackmar, is not a book calculated to 
convince doubters that there is a well-defined science 
of society. The author maintains that sociology has 
a field and purpose distinct from those of the special 
social sciences, but of this his book is not convincing 
evidence ; the chapters on the production and con- 
sumption of wealth and on exchange seem to belong 
for the most part in a treatise on economics, while 
that on the theory and functions of the state might 



have been taken out of a work on political science. 
The parts of the book which deal with socialization, 
social control, and social ideals are not subject to 
the same criticism, yet they are not altogether satis- 
fying; probably the space devoted to these subjects 
is insufficient for the successful exposition of a 
philosophy of society. The chapters on social 
pathology bring the science down to earth, and con- 
stitute probably the most valuable part of the book; 
there is a reference to '» the criminal germ " which 
looks at first sight like an extreme application of the 
biological analogy ; but this is probably only one of 
numerous expressions which would have been im- 
proved upon in a careful revision. There are two 
suggestive chapters on the field and method of social 
investigation; and, finally, an historical sketch of 
social philosophy and sociology which wUl be found 
a convenient introduction to the literature of the 
subject. 



BRIEFER MENTION. 



We have previously noted the appearance of the first 
three volumes in the " Journals of the Continental Con- 
gress," as edited by Mr. Worthington Chauncey Ford 
for the Library of Congress. The fourth volume of this 
important work has now appeared after a long delay, 
easily to be accounted for by the size of the volume, 
which contains over four hundred pages. It takes us into 
the epochal year of 1776, and covers only five months of 
the year at that, so many and serious were the activities 
of the Congress during the period between the Canadian 
expedition and the first steps toward the Declaration. 

The many who had not the privilege of viewing the 
annual Royal Academy exhibition of last summer may 
console themselves very comfortably with the volume of 
" Royal Academy Pictures, 1905," recently pubUshed by 
Messrs. Cassell & Co., which sets before us for the 
eighteenth consecutive time an adequate record of the 
national achievement in British art for the year. The 
quality of the reproductions, both half-tone and photo- 
gravure, is no less excellent in this than in previous vol- 
umes of the work. More than two himdred paintings 
and sculptures are reproduced, and there is a brief in- 
troductory note by Mr. M. H. Spielmann. 

A new volume in the " Drawings of the Great Mas- 
ters " series reproduces about fifty of the drawings of 
Adolph von Menzel. The illustrations are introduced 
by a brief appreciation from the pen of Professor H. W. 
Singer, who gives a vivid and sympathetic picture of 
Menzel's bitter struggle for recognition, and an account 
of his most important lithographs, wood-cuts, and paint- 
ings, and of the great mass of his drawings, some five 
thousand of which were recently exhibited at Berlin. 
Only one of the fifty representative sketches in the pres- 
ent volume has ever been reproduced before. There is 
a wide variety in subject, style, and finish, but all are 
interesting. — In similar form, though in this case appear- 
ing in " The Master Etchers " series, is a volume de- 
voted to the etchings of Charles Mdryon. There are 
forty-eight excellent reproductions of the master's work, 
an account of his unhappy career from the pen of Mr. 
Hugh Stokes, and a useful annotated list of his output. 
The form of these volumes, which are imported by 
Messrs. Scribner's Sons, is in every way worthy. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



203 



Notes. 



.A "School History of the United States," by Mr. 
Henry William Elson, is published by the MacmUlan 
Co. Mr. Elson's previous success in the popularization 
of our history bespeaks favorable consideration for this 
excellent text-book. 

Mr. Schuyler Staimton, author of "The Fate of a 
Crown," wUl issue early next month through the ReiUy 
& Britton Co. a new novel entitled " Daughters of Des- 
tiny." Eight drawings in color, three of them the work 
of Mr. Thomas Mitchell Pierce, will illustrate the book. 

We are glad to note that a collection of Mr. Thomas 
Bailey Aldrieh's " Songs and Sonnets " will be issued 
this Spring as a Riverside Press Edition, in similar form 
to " The Love Poems of John Donne " and Sidney's " Cer- 
taine Sonets." For this edition Mr. Aldrich has made 
a whoUy new selection and arrangement of his poetry. 

The volume of " Reminiscences of My Childhood and 
Youth," by the great Danish critic Greorge Brandes, is 
an interesting Spring annoimcement of Messrs. Fox, 
Duffield & Co. Simultaneously with its appearance in 
this country, the book will be issued in London by Mr. 
William Heinemann and in the original Danish at 
Copenhagen. 

" Great Pedagogical Essays," edited by Professor 
F. v. N. Painter, is published by the American Book 
Co. The contents include extracts from twenty-four 
authors, from Plato to Herbert Spencer, besides a small 
amoimt of anonymous matter. There are biographical 
sketches and a very few footnotes, but the volume is 
practically one of texts alone. 

The old-fashioned method of silhouette illustration is 
pleasantly revived in a booklet entitled " Great-Grand- 
ma's Lookiag-Glass," recently issued by Mr. Robert 
Grier Cooke. The text consists of a poem by Miss 
Blanche Xevin, a verse or two of which appears on each 
page. The full-page illustrations are the work of Annis 
Dunbar Jenkins, who has achieved charming results. 

In the series of bibliographies of American authors 
which Messrs. Houghton, Mifflin & Co. inaugurated last 
year with Miss Nina E. Browne's "Bibliography of 
Nathaniel Hawthorne," there will appear this Spring a 
" Bibliography of James Russell Lowell" compiled by 
Mr. George Willis Cooke, and a « Bibliography of the 
Writings of Henry James" compiled by Mr. Le Roy Phil- 
lips. Both volumes wUl be issued in limited editions. 

Mr. A. C. Benson has written a volimie on Walter 
Pater for the " English Men of Letters " series, and the 
book may be expected in the course of a month or two. 
We note that Mr. Benson has acknowledged the author- 
ship of " The Upton Letters," published anonymously 
last Fall; and that he is soon to bring out, through 
Messrs. Putnam, a series of papers which have been 
appearing in "The CornhiU Magazine" under the title 
" From a College Window." 

" The Liquor Problem : A Summary of Investiga- 
tions conducted by the Committee of Fifty, 1893-1903 " 
is a small book issued by Messrs Houghton, Mifflin & 
Co. It contains chapters on the physiological, legislative, 
economic, and ethical aspects of the liquor question, 
and one on substitutes for the saloon. It is very con- 
densed and statistical, being a summary of four large 
works prepared and published under the auspices of the 
committee ; and while it will undoubtedly prove useful, 
it should not take the place of the larger books as a 
source of information. 



"The Journeys of La Salle and his Companions," 
edited by Professor Isaac Joslin Cox, form two new 
volumes in the " Trail Makers " series of Messrs. 
A. S. Barnes & Co. The work includes translations 
of the memoirs of Tonty, Membr^, Hennepin, Douay, 
Le Clercq, Joutel, and Jean Cavelier, besides other 
minor pieces, and an introduction. 

The late George Birkbeck Hill's editorial labors in 
connection with the writings of Samuel Johnson are now 
(presumably) crowned by the publication of a stately 
three-volume edition of the " Lives of the Poets." Mr. 
Harold Spencer Scott, a nephew of Dr. Hill, has pre- 
pared this edition for the press, printing text and notes 
practically as they were left by the editor. He also 
contributes a memoir and bibliography of his uncle. 
These volumes are published by Mr. Henry Frowde at 
the Oxford Clarendon Press. 

Mr. Charles Dexter Allen, author of "American Book 
Plates," is rapidly bringing to completion a supple- 
mental list of plates not mentioned in that book. In 
the twelve years since the publication of the original 
work, many early American book plates have come to 
light, and it is the writer's aim to make this final book 
very complete and accurate. To this end he will gladly 
receive the assistance of all who have information of 
such plates, or of the early engravers. Mr. Allen's ad- 
dress is Dyker Heights, Brooklyn, N. T. 

Professor J. Churton Collins has edited for the Ox- 
ford University Press Matthew Arnold's " Merope," to 
which is appended the Electra of Sophocles in a trans- 
lation by Mr. R. Whitelaw. In this volume, which wiU 
be ready immediately, an attempt is made to introduce 
and to bring home to modem readers who are not 
Greek scholars Attic tragedy in its most perfect form. 
If the book is favorably received it is intended to follow 
it with a series of small volumes, each containing some 
leading Greek tragedy in an acknowledged masterpiece 
of translation, edited in the same manner. 

The centenary of Mrs. Browning's birth will be cele- 
brated this month by the publication in England of 
a memoir of her by Mr. Percy Lubbock, with a portrait 
by Mrs. Bridell Fox. On the same occasion will appear 
the correspondence of Browning with two friends of his 
youth, Alfred Domett and Amould, afterwards Sir 
Joseph Amould, Chief Justice of Bombay. These let- 
ters will appear under the editorship of Mr. F. G. Ken- 
yon, with portraits of the three friends. 

It has just been announced that Messrs. Fox, Duffield 
& Co., one of the most energetic of the younger New 
York publishing houses, have taken over the good-will, 
assets, plates, sheets, etc., of the firm of Herbert S. 
Stone & Co. of Chicago. The list thus acquired is an 
unusually strong one, its most important item being the 
fine definitive edition of Poe, edited by Professor Wood- 
berry and Mr. Stedman. Among the writers of estab- 
lished reputation represented in the list are Henry James, 
Greorge Bernard Shaw, Greorge Moore, H. G. Wells, 
William Sharp, Robert Hichens, Harold Frederic, Nor- 
man Hapgood, Egerton Castle, Robert Herrick, and 
many others. The important " Green Tree Library " of 
plays by contemporary dramatists includes some of the 
best work of Maeterlinck, Ibsen, and Sudermann. 
Among popular novelists of the day whose books Messrs. 
Stone & Co. were the first to bring out may be men- 
tioned Greorge Barr MeCutcheon, Greorge Ade, and H. K. 
Viele. " The House Beautiful," edited by Mr. Herbert 
S. Stone, is not included in the transfer, and will appear 
as heretofore from Chicago. 



204 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



Announcements of Spring Books. 

Herewith is presented The Dial's annual list of 
books announced for Spring publication, containing this 
year some eight hundred and fifty titles. All the books 
here given are presumably new books — new editions 
not being included tmless having new form or matter. 
The list is compiled from authentic data especially 
secured for this purpose, and presents a trustworthy 
survey of the Spring books of 1906. 

BIOaSAFHT AND KEHINISCENCES. 

Joseph Jefferson, reminiscences of a friend, by Francis 
Wilson, illus., $2. net.— The Early Life of Leo Tolstoy, 
autobiographical memoirs, by P. Birukoffi, illus. — Liter- 
ary Lives series, new vol.: Sir Walter Scott, by Andrew 
Lang, Illus., ?1. net. — Paul Jones, founder of the Ameri- 
can Navy, by Augustus C. Buell, new edition, with sup- 
plementary chapter by General Horace Porter, 2 vols., 
illus., $3. — Mary, Queen of Scots, by T. F. Henderson, 2 
vols., illus., ?6. net. (Charles Scribner's Sons.) 

Dixie after the War, by Myrta Lockett Avary, illus., $2.75 
net. — Letters and Recollections of George Washington, 
being his correspondence with Tobias Lear and others, 
together with a diary of Washington's last days kept 
by Mr. Lear, with portraits, $2.50 net.— Recollections of 
Thirteen Presidents, by John S. Wise, illus., $2.50 net. 
(Doubleday, Page & Co.) 

Life of John Wesley, by C. T. Winchester, with portraits. 
— Memoir of Archbishop Temple, by seven friends, edited 
by E. G. Sandford, 2 vols., illus.— English Men of Letters 
series, new vols.: Mrs. Gaskell, by Clement Shorter, 
Charles Kingsley, by G. K. Chesterton, Shakespeare, by 
Walter Raleigh; each 75 cts. net. (Macmillan Co.) 

Reminiscences of My Childhood and Youth, by George 
Brandes, trans, by G. M. Fox-Davies, $2.50 net. (Fox, 
Duffleld & Co.) 

With Walt Whitman in Camden, a diary record of con- 
versations, with many important letters and manu- 
scripts, by Horace Traubel, with portraits, $3. net.— 
Josiah Warren, by William Bailie, with portrait, $1. 
net.— The Beacon Biographies, new vol.: John Fiske, 
by Thomas Sergeant Perry, with portrait, 75 cts. net. 
(Small, Maynard & Co.) 

The True Andrew Jackson, by Cyrus Townsend Brady, 
illus., $2. net.— French Men of Letters series, edited by 
Alexander Jessup, Vol. II., Honor6 de Balzac, by Ferdi- 
nand Brunetidre, with portrait, $1.50 net.— Memoirs of 
Charles Cramp, by Augustus C. Buell, $1.50 net.— Heroes 
of Discovery in America, by Charles Morris, illus., $1.25 
net. (J. B. Lippincott Co.) 

Jacques Cartier, Sieur De Llmoilou, his voyage to the St. 
Lawrence, with bibliography, memoir, and annotations 
by James Phinney Baxter, A.M., limited edition, $10. 
net. — Modern English Writers series, new vol.: George 
Eliot, by A. T. Quiller-Couch, $1. net. (Dodd, Mead & 
Co.) 

Reminiscences of Bishops and Archbishops, by Henry Cod- 
man Potter. — The Life of Goethe, by Albert Bielschow- 
sky, authorized translation from the German, by William 

A. Cooper, "Vol. II., From the Italian Journey to the 
Wars of Liberation, 1788-1815, Illus., $3.50 net.— Russell 
Wheeler Davenport, with photogravure portrait. (G. P. 
Putnam's Sons.) 

Lincoln, Master of Men, by Alonzo Rothschild, illus., $3. 

net. — Memories of a Great Schoolmaster, by James P. 

Conover, illus. (Houghton, Mifflin & Co.) 
With John Bull and Jonathan, by John Morgan Richards, 

Illus., $4. net. (D. Appleton & Co.) 
In the Sixties and Seventies, Impressions of literary people 

and others, by Laura Hain Friswell, $3.50 net. (Herbert 

B. Turner & Co.) 

A Great Archbishop of Dublin, William King, D.D., 1650- 
1729, autobiography, family correspondence, etc., edited 
by Sir Charles S. King, Bart., with portraits. (Long- 
mans, Green, & Co.) 

A Patriot's Mistake, personal recollections of Charles 
Stewart Parnell and the Parnell family, by Emily Mon- 
roe Dickinson, $2.50 net. — Living Masters of Music series, 
new vol.: Edvard Grieg, by Henry T. Pinck, illus., $1. 
net. (John Lane Co.) 

Remenyi, Musician and Man, by Gwendolyn Kelley and 
George P. Upton, illus., $1.75 net. (A. C. McClurg & Co.) 

The Life of a Star, by Clara Morris, with frontispiece, 
$1.50 net. (McClure, Phillips & Co.) 

The Story of my Life, by Father Gapon, illus., $3. net.— 
Mary Stuart, by Florence A. MacCunn, Illus., $3. net.— 
Master Musicians series, new vol.: Brahms, by J. 
Lawrence Erb., Illus., $1.25 net.— The Prophet of the 
Poor, the life story of General Booth, by Thomas F. 
G. Coates, $1.50 net. (E. P. Dutton & Co.) 



Augustus, the life and times of the founder of the Roman 
Empire, by E. S. Shuckburgh, LItt.D., illus., $1.60. (A. 
Wessels Co.) 

Lives of Great Writers series, by Tudor Jenks, new vols.: 
In the Days of Goldsmith, and In the Days of Scott, 
each illus., $1. net. (A. S. Barnes & Co.) 

American Crisis Biographies, new vol.: Frederick Douglass, 
by Booker T. Washington, $1.25 net. (George W. Jacobs 
& Co.) 

John Witherspoon, by David Walter Woods, Jr., $1.50 net.— 
The Secret of Heroism, a memoir of Henry Albert Harper, 
by W. L. Mackenzie King, $1. net. (Fleming H. Re- 
vell Co.) 

Party Leaders of the Time, by Charles Willis Thompson, 
with portraits, $1.75 net. (G. W. Dillingham Co.) 

Pizarro and the Conquest of Peru, by Frederick A. Ober, 
illus., $1. net. (Harper & Brothers.) 

Robert Louis Stevenson, by G. K. Chesterton, new edi- 
tion, with portrait, 50 cts. (James Pott & Co.) 

HISTORY. 

Notes on the History and Political Institutions of the Old 
World, by Edward Preissig. — The Development of the 
European Nations, 1870-1900, by J. Holland Rose, 2 vols., 
with maps, $5. net. — Story of the Nations series, new 
vols.: The Story of Greece, from the coming of the Hel- 
lenes to A. D. 14, by E. S. Shuckburgh, Litt.D. ; Japan, 
by David Murray, Ph.D., new edition, revised to 1906, 
with supplementary chapters by Baron Kentaro Kaneko; 
Chaldea, from earliest times to the rise of Assyria, by 
Z6naide A. Ragozin, new edition, revised and in part re- 
written; each illus., $1.35 net. — A History of England, 
from earliest times to 1815, by various writers, edited 
by C. W. C. Oman, in 6 vols.. Vols. I., III., and VI. still 
to appear, per vol. $3. net. — The Abolitionists, together 
with personal memoirs of the struggle for human rights, 
1830-64, by John T. Hume, $1.25 net.— American Political 
History, 1763-1876, by Alexander Johnston, edited and sup- 
plemented by James Albert Woodburn, 2 vols., each $2. 
net.— History of the Parish of Trinity Church in the 
City of New York, compiled and edited by Morgan Dix, 
S.T.D., Part IV., The Rectorship of Dr. Berrian, com- 
pleting the work, $5. net.— Haydn's Dictionary of Dates, 
containing a history of the world to the autumn of 1905, 
by Benjamin Vincent, 24th edition, $6. net. (G. P. Put- 
nam's Sons.) 

History of Civilization, from the earliest times to the 
present day, by Charles Seignobos, trans, and edited 
by Arthur Herbert Wilde. — The Russian Court In the 
Eighteenth Century, by Fitzgerald Molloy, 2 vols., Illus., 
$6. net.— A Tour of Four Great Rivers, the Hudson, 
Mohawk, Susquehanna, and Delaware, in 1769, being the 
Journal of Richard Smith, of Burlington, N. J., edited, 
with a brief history of pioneer settlement, by Francis 
W. Halsey, limited edition, $5. net. (Charles Scribner's 
Sons.) 

MediaBval London, social and ecclesiastical, by Sir Walter 
Besan, 2 vols., illus. — Cambridge Modern History, planned 
by the late Lord Acton, edited by A. W. Ward, G. W. 
Prothero, and Stanley Leathes, Vol. IX., Napoleon and 
His Times, $4. net.— A History of Modern England, by 
Herbert Paul, Vol. V., completing the work, $2.50 net.— 
A History of the Inquisition of Spain, by Henry Charles 
Lea, LL.D., in 4 vols.. Vol. II.— General History, from 
5000 B. C. to 1871 A. D., by Dr. Emil Reich, 2 vols. 
(Macmillan Co.) 

Personal Narrative of Travels in Virginia, Maryland, Penn- 
sylvania, Ohio, Indiana, Kentucky, and of a residence 
in the Illinois Territory, 1817-8, by Ellas Pym Fordham, 
edited by Frederic Austin Ogg, A.M., illus., $3. net.— 
The Present State of the European Settlements on the 
Mississippi, by Captain Philip Pittman, edited by Frank 
Heywood Hodder, with maps, $3. net.— Magellan's Voyage 
around the World, by Antonio Pigafetta, original and 
complete text of the oldest and best MS., the Ambrosian 
MS. of Milan, of the early 16th century, the Italian text 
with page-for-page English translation, trans., edited, and 
annotated by James A. Robertson, limited edition, 2 vols., 
Illus., $7.50 net.— Audubon's Western Journal, 1849-1851, 
from the MS. records of an overland trip through Texas, 
Mexico, and Arizona to the gold-flelds of California, by 
John W. Audubon, edited by Maria R. Audubon, illus., 
$3. net. (Arthur H. Clark Co.) 

Americans of 1776, by James Schouler, $2. net.— The 
Declaration of Independence, its history, by J. H. Hazle- 
ton, illus., $4.50 net.— The History of Ancient Egypt, by 
George Camden Rawlinson, new edition, 2 vols., $3. 
(Dodd, Mead & Co.) 

Lectures on Early English History, by William Stubbs, 
D.D., edited by Arthur Hassall, M.A., $4. net— The 
Political History of England, edited by William Hunt, 
D.Litt., and Reginald Lane Poole, M.A.; Vol. I., To 1066, 
by Thomas Hodgkin, D.C.L., $2.60 net. (Longmans, 
Green, & Co.) 

A Political History of the State of New York, 1777-1861, 
by D. S. Alexander, 2 vols.— An Atlas of European His- 
tory, by Prof. Earl W. Dow. (Henry Holt & Co.) 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



205 



War Government, Federal and State, by William B. Wee- 
den. — A History of the Town of MiddleborOj Mass., by 
Thomas Weston, illus.— History of the Twentieth Massa- 
chusetts Regiment, by George A. Bruce. (Houghton, 
MiflBin & Co.) 

Voyages and Explorations of Samuel De Champlain, nar- 
rated by himself, trans, for the first time by Annie 
Nettleton Bourne, edited by Edward Gaylord Bourne, 
3 vols., illus., $3. net. (A. S. Barnes & Co.) 

Ancient Records of Egypt, by James H. Breasted, in 5 
vols., each %Z. net. (University of Chicago Press.) 

The American Nation, edited by Albert Bushnell Hart, 
LL.D. ; Vol. XIII., Rise of American Nationality, by 
Kendrick Charles Babcock, Ph.D.; Vol. XIV., Rise of the 
New West, by Frederick Jackson Turner, Ph.D., Vol. 
XV., Jacksonian Democracy, by William MacDonald, 
LL.D.; each with portrait, $2. net. (Harper & Brothers.) 

The Glory Seekers, the romance of would-be founders of 
empire in the early days of the Southwest, by William 
Horace Brown, illus., |1.50 net. (A. C. McClurg & Co.) 

The Fight for Canada, a sketch from the history of the 
Great Imperial War, by William Wood, illus., J2.50 net. 
(Little, Brown, & Co.) 

Irish History and the Irish Question, by Goldwin Smith, 
J1.62 net. (McClure, Phillips & Co.) 

The French Blood in America, by Lucian J. Fosdick, |2. 
net. (Fleming H. Revell Co.) 

The Real Triumph of Japan, by Major Louis Livingston 
Seaman, illus., $1.50 net. (D. Appleton & Co.) 

German Official Account of the War in South Africa, 
Vol. II., The Advance to Pretoria after Paardeberg, the 
Upper Tugela Campaign, etc., authorized translation by 
Col. Hubert du Cane, R.A., illus., |4. net. (E. P. Dut- 
ton & Co.) 

In Olde Connecticut, by Charles Burr Todd, $1.25 net. 
(The Grafton Press.) 

GENEBAX. L.ITESATX7BE. 

Letters from Samoa, by Mrs. Margaret Isabella Stevenson, 
$2. net. — Concerning Paul and Fiammetta, by L. Allen 
Harker, |1.25. — A Romance of the Nursery, by L. Allen 
Harker, illus., $1.25.— My Little Boy, by Carl Ewald, 
trans, by A. T. de Mattos, $1. net. (Charles Scribner's 
Sons.) 

The Launching of a University, by Daniel Coit Gilman, 
LL.D., $2.50 net.— The Key of the Blue Closet, by 
W. Robertson Nicoll, $1.40 net. — Famous Introductions to 
Shakespeare's Plays, edited by Beverly Warner, D.D.. 
$2.50 net. — Magazine Articles I Have Read, by Burton 
Emmet, $1. net. (Dodd, Mead & Co.) 

The Ghost in Hamlet, and other essays in comparative 
literature, by Dr. Maurice Francis Egan, $1. net. — Litera- 
ture of Libraries, 17th and 18lh centuries, edited by John 
Cotton Dana, limited edition, 2 vols., $12. net. — Old Tales 
from Rome, by Alice Zimmern, illus., $1.25. (A. C. Mc- 
Clurg & Co.) 

The Development of Shakespeare as a Dramatist, by George 
P. Baker, illus. — Parody and Related Forms in Jewish 
Literature, by Dr. Israel Davidson. — Success through 
Self-Help, by Newell Dwight Hillis.— The Arbiter, a dia- 
logue on war and arbitration, anonymous. (Macmil- 
lan Co.) 

From a College Window, by Arthur C. Benson (T. B.). — 
The Writings of Samuel Adams, edited by Harry Alonzo 
Gushing, limited edition. Vol. III., $5. net.— The Writings 
of James Madison, edited by Gaillard Hunt, limited edi- 
tion. Vol. VI., $5. net. (G. P. Putnam's Sons.) 

The Champagne Standard, by Mrs. John Lane, $1.50 net.— 
The Mirror of the Century, by Walter Frewen Lord, 
illus., $1.50 net.— Secret Life, the book of a heretic, 
$1.50 net. — Cornish Saints and Sinners, by J. Henry Har- 
ris, illus., $1.50. (John Lane Co.) 

The College Man and the College Woman, by William 
DeWitt Hyde, $1.50 net. — Moral Overstrain, by George W. 
Alger. — American Literary Masters, by Leon H. Vincent, 
$2. net. (Houghton, Mifflin & Co.) 

The Silver Age of the Greek World, by J. P. Mahaffy. — 
Russian Reader, by Samuel N. Harper, $3. net. (Uni- 
versity of Chicago Press.) 

A Literary History of Philadelphia, by Ellis Paxon Ober- 
holtzer, illus., $3. net. (George W. Jacobs & Co.) 

The Letters of Richard Ford, 1797-1858, edited by Row- 
land E. Prothero, M.V.O., illus., $3.50 net.— The Christ 
of English Poetry, by C. W. Stubbs, D.D., $2. net.— 
How to Read English Literature, Chaucer to Milton, 
by Laurie Magnus, M.A., 75 cts. net. (E. P. Button 
& Co.) 

The Art and Craft of the Author, by C. E. Heisch, $1.20 
net. (The Grafton Press.) 

Wayside Tales, by Charles Wagner, $1. net. (McClure, 
Phillips & Co.) 

Mark Twain's Library of Humor, first vols. : Men and 
Things, Women and Things, The Primrose Path; each 
illus., $1.50. (Harper & Brothers.) 

A Few Neighbors, by Henry A. Shute, $1. net. (Doubleday, 
Page & Co.) 



The Humor of Bulls and Blunders, edited by Marshall 
Brown, $1.20 net. (Small, Maynard & Co.) 

What Men Like in Women, by E. J. Hardy, $1. net. (G. 
W. Dillingham Co.) 

POETBT AND THE DRATVTA. 

Nero, by Stephen Phillips. — The Dynasts, a drama of the 
Napoleonic wars, by Thomas Hardy, in 3 parts. Part II.— 
Poems and Plays, by W. B. Yeats, new collected library 
edition, 2 vols.— Plays by Clyde Fitch, comprising: The 
Toast of the Town, Her Own Way, and The Stubborn- 
ness of Geraldine; each 75 cts. net. (Macmillan Co.) 

Selections from the Poetry of John Payne, compiled by 
Tracy and Lucy Robinson, $2.50 net. — The Coming of 
Love, Rhona Boswell's Story, and other poems, by Theo- 
dore Watts-Dunton, seventh edition, enlarged and re- 
vised, with photogravure portrait and preface by the 
author, $2. net. — The Rosary, and other poems, by Robert 
Cameron Rogers, $1.50 net. — Augustine the Man, a play, 
by Amelie Rives (Princess Troubetzksy), $1.50 net- 
Love's Testament, a sonnet sequence, by G. Constant 
Lounsbery, $1.25 net. — Flowers of Parnassus series, new 
vol. : The Song of Songs, Which is Solomon's, a lyrical 
folk-play of the ancient Hebrews, arranged in seven 
scenes, by Francis Coutts, illus., 50 cts. net. (John 
Lane Co.) 

Rahab, a drama of the fall of Jericho, by Richard Burton. 
(Henry Holt & Co.) 

Bird and Bough, by John Burroughs. (Houghton, Mifflin 
& Co.) 

The Far Country, by Florence Wilkinson, $1. net. (Mc- 
Clure, Phillips & Co.) 

In Sun or Shade, by Louise Morgan Sill, $1.50 net (Harper 
& Brothers.) 

Joyzelle and Monna Vanna, by Maurice Maeterlinck, $1.40 
net.— Rubaiyat of a Motor Car, by Carolyn Wells, illus., 
$1. net. (Dodd, Mead & Co.) 

Peace and Progress, by Nathan Haskell Dole, new edition, 
$1.25 net. (Moffat, Yard & Co.) 

Songs of Schooldays, by J. W. Foley, illus., $1.25 net. 
(Doubleday, Page & Co.) 

Verses, by George O. Holbrooke, $1.— Poems, by Mary 
Bayard Clarke, with frontispiece, $1.— Robin's Kisses, 
and other verses, by Mary Stewart Dunlap, illus., $1. — 
Golden Reveries, by Martha Lena Beattie, 50 cts. (Broad- 
way Publishing Co.) 

FICTION. 

Fenwick's Career, by Mrs. Humphry Ward, $1.50. — Silas 
Strong, Emperor of the Woods, by Irving Bacheller, with 
frontispiece, $1.50.— The Spoilers, by Rex E. Beach, with 
frontispiece, $1.50. — The Awakening of Helena Richie, by 
Margaret Deland, illus., $1.50.— The Undefiled, by Frances 
Aymar Mathews, $1.50.— The Genius, by Margaret Potter, 
$1.50.— Miss Primrose, by Roy Rolfe Gilson, $1.25.— 
Chatwit, the Man-Talk Bird, by Philip Verrill Mlghels, 
illus., $1.50.— The Princess Olga, by Ervin Wardman, 
$1.50.— Eve's Diary, by Mark Twain, illus., $1.— Harper's 
Novelettes, edited by W. D. Howells and H. M. Alden, 
first vols.: Their Husbands' Wives, Under the Sunset, 
Quaint Courtships; each $1. (Harper & Brothers.) 

On the Field of Glory, by Henryk Sienkiewicz, trans, from 
the Polish by Jeremiah Curtln, $1.50.— A Maker of His- 
tory, by E. Phillips Oppenheim, illus., $1.50.— Maid of 
Athens, by Lafayette McLaws, illus., $1.50.— The Sage 
Brush Parson, by A. B. Ward, $1.50.— Hearts and Creeds, 
a romance of Quebec, by Anna Chapin Ray., illus., $1.50. 
—The District Attorney, by William Sage, $1.50.— The 
Wolf at Susan's Door, by Anne Warner, with frontis- 
piece, $1.— Called to the Field, a story of Virginia in the 
Civil War, by Lucy M. Thruston, $1.50.— Old Washing- 
ton, by Harriet Prescott SpofEord, with frontispiece, $1.50. 
— Sandpeep, by Sara E. Boggs, with frontispiece, $1.50.— 
Kenelm's Desire, by Hughes Cornell, $1.50.— The Wire 
Tappers, by Arthur Stringer, illus., $1.50.— Truth Dexter, 
by Sidney McCall, new illustrated edition, $1.50. — A Mil- 
lionaire of Yesterday, by E. Phillips Oppenheim, new 
edition, illus., $1.50.— The Man and his Kingdom, by E. 
Phillips Oppenheim, new edition, illus., $1.50. (Little, 
Brown, & Co.) 

The Dawn of a To-Morrow, by Frances Hodgson Burnett, 
illus. in color, $1.— The Tides of Barnegat, by F. Hop- 
kinson Smith.— John Frane, by Frederick Palmer, Illus., 
$1.50. — The Day-Dreamer, by Jesse Lynch Williams. 
$1.25.— The Tower, by Mary Tappan Wright, $1.50.— The 
Prisoner of Ornith Farm, by Frances Powell, $1.50.— 
Bob and the Guides, by Mary Raymond Shlpman An- 
drews, illus., $1.50.— The Pink Typhoon, by Harrison Rob- 
ertson, with frontispiece, $1.— The Law-Breakers, by Rob- 
ert Grant, $1.25.— Six Stars, by Nelson Lloyd, illus., $1.60. 
— The Last Spike, and other railroad stories, by Cy 
Warman, $1.25.— Uniform Edition of Edith Wharton's 
Novels and Stories, 7 vols. (Charles Scribner's Sons.) 

In Cure of her Soul, by Alfred Jesup Stimson ("J. S. of 
Dale"), illus., $1.50.— Fishers of Men, by S. R. Crockett, 
illus., $1.50. — The Tracer of Lost Persons, by Robert W. 



206 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



Chambers, illus., $1.50.— The Great Refusal, by Maxwell 
Gray, $1.50. — The Healers, by Maarten Maartens, $1.50. — 
The Lake, by George Moore, $1.50.— All for the Love of 
a Lady, by Elinor Macartney Lane, illus., $1.25. — The 
Castle of Lies, by Arthur Henry Vesey, $1.50. — The 
Chateau of Montplaisir, by Molly Elliot Seawell, illus., 
$1.25. — Letters to Women in Love, by Mrs. John Van 
Vorst, $1.50. — The Private War, by Louis Joseph Vance, 
illus., $1.50. — The False Gods, by George Horace Lorimer, 
illus., $1.25.— In the Shadow, by Henry C. Rowland, illus., 
$1.50.— Marcelle the Mad, by Seth Cook Comstock, $1.50.— 
The Triumphs of Eugene Valmont, by Robert Barr, 
illus., $1.50. — Wild Justice, by Lloyd Osbourne, illus., 
$1.50. — A Lady in Waiting, by Charles Woodcock Savage, 
with frontispiece, $1.50. (D. Appleton & Co.) 

Coniston, by Winston Churchill, illus., $1.50. — Lady Balti- 
more, by Owen Wister, illus., $1.50.- If Youth but Knew, 
by Egerton Castle, illus., $1.50.— The Way of the Gods, 
by John Luther Long. — The Sin of George Warrener, by 
Marie Van Vorst.- The Portreeve, by Eden Phillpotts, 
$1.50.— Helianthus, by "Ouida" (Louise De La Ramee), 
$1.50.— The Vine of Sibmah, by Andrew Macphail, $1.50. 
(Macmillan Co.) 

What Happened to Pam, by Bettina von Hutten, Illus., 
$1.50. — Cowardice Court, by George Barr McCutcheon, 
illus. in color, $1.25.— Barbara Winslow, Rebel, by Eliza- 
beth Ellis, illus., $1.50.— The Patriots, by Cyrus Townsend 
Brady, illus. in color, $1.50. — A Motor Car Divorce, by 
Louise Closser Hale, illus. in color, $1.50. — A Lame Dog's 
Diary, by S. Macnaughton, $1.50. — The Girl with the Blue 
Sailor, by Burton Egbert Stevenson, illus., $1.50.— The 
Hill, by Horace A. Vachell, $1.50.— The Scholar's Daugh- 
ter, by Beatrice Harraden, Illus., $1.50. — My Sword for 
Lafayette, by Max Pemberton, illus., $1.50. (Dodd, Mead 
& Co.) 

The Mayor of Warwick, by Herbert M. Hopkins, with 
frontispiece in color, $1.50. — The Evasion, by Eugenia 
Brooks Frothingham, with frontispiece, $1.50. — Between 
Two Masters, by Gamaliel Bradford, Jr., $1.50.— The 
Clammer, by William J. Hopkins, $1.25.— A Little Sister 
of Destiny, by Gelett Burgess, illus., $1.50.— The Spirit 
of the Pines, by Margaret Morse, $1. — Cattle Brands, by 
Andy Adams, $1.50.— The Court of Love, by Alice Brown. 
— Calmire, and Sturmsee, by Henry Holt, new editions, 
each $1.50. (Houghton, Mifflin & Co.) 

The Angel of Pain, by E. F. Benson, $1.50.— Breakers 
Ahead, by Mrs. A. Maynard Barbour, $1.50.— Adventures 
of a Supercargo, by Louis Becke, $1.50. — Vanity Square, 
by Edgar Saltus, $1.25.— The Colonel of the Red Hussars, 
by John Reed Scott, illus., $1.50.— Lippincott's Series of 
■Select Novels, new vols. : Marty, by John Strange Win- 
ter; When Blades Are Out and Love's Afield, by Cyrus 
Townsend Brady; Life's Trivial Round, by Rosa Nou- 
chette Carey; each 50 cts. (J. B. Lippincott Co.) 

Lady Betty Crosses the Water, by C. N. and A. M. Wil- 
liamson, illus., $1.50.— In Our Town, by William Allen 
White, illus., $1.50.— The Pets and Other Critters, by 
Henry Wallace Phillips, illus., $1.25. — More Stories of 
Married Life, by Mary Stewart Cutting, with frontis- 
piece, $1.25.— The Four Million, by O. Henry, $1.— Vrouw 
Grobelaar and her Leading Cases, by Perceval Gibbon, 
$1.25.— Pigs is Pigs, by Ellis Parker Butler, illus. (Mc- 
Clure, Phillips & Co.) 

The Jungle, a novel of Chicago, by Upton Sinclair, $1.50.— 
Under the Arch, by Lady Henry Somerset, $1.50.— The 
Incomplete Amorist, by "E. Nesbit" (Mrs. Bland), illus., 
$1.50.— Curayl, by Una L. Silberrad, $1.50.— A Woman's 
Heart, by Olive Ransom, $1.50.— The Lady and the Lad- 
der, by Harrison Garfield Rhodes, illus., $1.50.— The Spur, 
by G. B. Lancaster, $1.50.— The Book of Juliana, by 
Katherine Holland Brown, illus., $1.50. (Doubleday, Page 
& Co.) 

Carolina Lee, by Lilian Bell, with frontispiece in color, 
$1.50.— The Count at Harvard, being an account of the 
adventures of a young gentleman of fashion at Harvard 
University, by Rupert Sargent Holland, $1.50.— The Gold- 
en Arrow, by T. Jenkins Hains, illus., $1.50.— The Idlers, 
by Morley Roberts, with frontispiece in color, $1.50. — The 
Cruise of the Conqueror, being the further adventures 
of the motor pirate, by G. Sidney Paternoster, with 
frontispiece, $1.50.— Stand Pat, or Poker Stories from 
Brownville, by David A. Curtis, illus., $1.50.— The Pas- 
senger from Calais, a detective story, by Arthur Griffiths 
$1.25. (L. C. Page & Co.) 

Saints in Society, by Margaret Baillie-Saunders, $1.50.— 
The Shock of Battle, by Patrick Vaux, illus.— No. 101, 
by Wymond Carey, illus., $1.50.— A Son of the People, a 
romance of the Hungarian plains, by Baroness Orczy, 
$1.50.— Peter and Alexis, by Dmitri Merejkowski, $1.50.— 
In the Shadow of the Alamo, and other Texas tales, by 
Clara Driscoll, illus.— All that Was Possible, by Howard 
Lovering Sturgis, with frontispiece in color, $1.50.— The 
Sacred Cup, by Vincent Brown, $1.50.— A Lost Cause, 
by Guy Thorne, $1.50. (G. P. Putnam's Sons.) 

The Edge of Hazard, by George Horton, illus., $1.50.— 
Judith, by Grace Alexander, illus., $1.50.— The Challenge, 
by Warren Cheney, illus., $1.50.— The Quickening, by 
Francis Lynde, illus., $1.50.— The Scarlet Empire, by 
David M. Parry, illus. in color, $1.50. (Bobbs-Merrill Co.) 



Nlcanor, Teller of Tales, by C. Bryson Taylor, Illus. in 
color, $1.50.— For the Soul of Rafael, by Marah Ellis 
Ryan, illus., $1.50. — Dick Pentreath, by Katharine Tynan, 
illus., $1.25.— "Ground Arms!" a romance of European 
War, by Baroness Bertha von Suttner, new edition, with 
frontispiece, $1.25. (A. C. McClurg & Co.) 

A Diplomatic Adventure, by Dr. S. Weir Mitchell, with 
frontispiece, $1. — The Shadow of Life, by Anne Douglas 
Sedgwick, $1.50.— The Truth about Tolna, by Bertha 
Runkle, with frontispiece in color, $1.50. — Uncle William, 
by Jennette Lee, with frontispiece, $1.— The Lady of the 
Decoration, by Frances Little, $1. — In Old Bellaire, by 
Mary Dillon, illus., $1.50. (Century Co.) 

The Throwback, by Alfred Henry Lewis, illus., $1.50. — 
The Lucky Piece, by Albert Bigelow Paine, with frontis- 
piece in color, $1.50. — The Praying Skipper, by Ralph D. 
Paine, illus., $1.50.— Side Show Studies, by Francis Met- 
calfe, illus., $1.50. (Outing Publishing Co.) 

The Eternal Spring, by Neith Boyce, illus., $1.50. — The 
Way of an Indian, by Frederic Remington, illus. in 
color, etc., by the author, $1.50. — The Ghosts of their An- 
cestors, by Weymer Jay Mills, illus. in color, etc., $1.25. 
(Fox, Duffleld & Co.) 

Mr. Pratt, by Joseph C. Lincoln, illus., $1.50.— The Voice 
of the Street, by Ernest Poole, $1.50.— The Secret of a 
Night, by Emerson G. Taylor, $1.50.— The Ancient Mira- 
cle, by Jane Grosvenor Cooke, $1.50. (A. S. Barnes 
& Co.) 

Scarlett of the Mounted, by Marguerite Merington, illus., 
$1.25.— The Invisible Bond, by Eleanor Talbot Kinkead, 
illus. in color, $1.50.— Where Speech Ends, by Robert 
Haven Schauffler, illus., $1.50. (Moffat, Yard & Co.) 

Alton of Somasco, by Harold Bindloss, illus., $1.50. — 
Huntington, Jr., by Edward Clary Root, illus. in color, 
$1.50. — By Wit of Woman, by Arthur W. Marchmont, 
illus., $1.50. (Frederick A. Stokes Co.) 

Folly, by Edith Rickert, with frontispiece, $1.50.— Hazel of 
Heatherland, by Mabel Barnes-Grundy, $1.50. (Baker & 
Taylor Co.) 

Common Ground, by Sydney H. Preston. — The Nonchalante, 
by Stanley Olmsted.— The Seamaid, by Ronald MacDon- 
ald. (Henry Holt & Co.) 

The Story of Paul Jones, by Alfred Henry Lewis, illus., 
$1.50.— The Bottom of the Well, by Frederick Upham 
Adams, illus., $1.50.— Tonio, Son of the Sierras, by Gen- 
eral Charles King, illus., $1.50.— The Financier, by Har- 
ris Burland, illus., $1.50.— Lady Jim of Curzon Street, 
by Fergus Hume, $1.50.— Below the Dead Line, by Scott 
Campbell, illus., $1.25.— Chip of the Flying "U", by B. 
M. Bower, illus., $1.25.— The Opal Serpent, by Fergus 
Hume, $1.25.— Skiddoo, by the author of "John Henry," 
Illus., 75 cts.— Love Letters that Caused a Divorce, by 
Mrs. A. E. Aldington, 75 cts. (G. W. Dillingham Co.) 

The Cleansing of the Lords, by Harold Wintle, $1.50.— 
The Bridal of Anstace, by Elizabeth Godfrey, $1.50. — 
The Young O'Briens, by the author of "Elizabeth's Chil- 
dren," $1.50.— The Love of Gold, by Mansfield Brooks, 
$1.50.— The House by the Bridge, by M. G. Easton, $1.50. 
(John Lane Co.) 

The Stigma, a tale of the South, by Emily Selkirk, $1.5<r.— 
The Conquest of Jerusalem, by Myriam Harry, $1.50.— 
The Snare of Strength, by Randolph Bedford, illus., $1.50. 
(Herbert B. Turner & Co.) 

The Girl from Tim's Place, by Charles Clark Munn, illus., 
$1.50.— The Golden Greyhound, by Dwight Tilton, Illus., 
$1.50. (Lothrop, Lee & Shepard Co.) 

The "Bishop" of Cottontown, a story of the Tennessee 
valley, by John Trotwood Moore, illus., $1.50. — Sim 
Greene, a story of the great whiskey insurrection, by 
Richard T. Wiley, $1.50.— Deacon Babbitt, a tale of 
fact and fiction, by Edgar G. Blankman, $1.50. (John 
C. Winston Co.) 

Mr. Scraggs, by Henry Wallace Phillips, Illus., $1.25. — 
Worshippers, by Henry Berman, $1.50. (The Grafton 
Press.) 

A Premature Socialist, by Mary Ives Todd, Illus., $1.— 
Twentieth Century Goslings, by Frances Mead Seager, 
illus., $1.50. — ^John Burton's Stage Yarns, by Annie B. 
Cooper, with frontispiece, $1.— Ruth, by Edith Elizabeth 
Fisher, Illus., $1.50.— A Country Banker, by Gaston 
W. Ames, 2 vols., each illus., $1.— The Bermudlan, by 
Archie Bell, Illus., $1.— The Hospital Cap, by Oliver 
Perry Manlove, $1.— Zeb Tillman, by Olive Wood How- 
ard, $1.50.— Plantation Tales, by George E. Wiley, M. D., 
Illus.— Odd Types, by B. K., Illus., $1.50. (Broadway Pub- 
lishing Co.) 

Out of Due Time, by Mrs. Wilfrid Ward, $1.50. (Long- 
mans, Green, & Co.) 

The Girl Out There, by Karl Edwin Harriman, Illus., $1.25. 
(George W. Jacobs & Co.) 

A Man from America, by Mrs. Henry De La Pasture, 
$1.50.— Bembo, a tale of Italy, by Bernard Capes, $1.50. 
(E. P. Dutton & Co.) 

The Struggle, by Sidney C. Tapp, Ph.D., $1.50. (A. Wes- 
sels Co.) 

The Rose Croix, by David Tod Gilliam, illus., $1.50. 
(Saalfield Publishing Co.) 



1906.] 



THE DIAJL 



207 



A Sicilian Marriage, by Douglas Sladen, illus., |L60. 

(James Poti & Co.) 
The Vision at the Savoy, by Winifred Graham, ^.60. 

(Fleming H. Revell Co.) 
The Doverflelds' Diamonds, by Lawrence L. Lynch, illus., 

75 cts. (Laird & Lee.) 

TBAV£Ii AKD DESCBIFTIOK. 

Tarry at Home Travels, by Edward Everett Hale, D.D., 
illtis. — Persia, Past and Present, Transcaspia and TurUs- 
tan, a book of travel and research, by A. V. Williams 
Jackson, illus.— The Blackmore Country, by F. J. Snell, 
illus., $2. — Oxford and the Cots wolds, by Herbert A. 
Evans, illus., J2. — London. Vanished and Vanishing, de- 
scribed and painted by Philip Xorman, illus. in color, 
$6. net. (Macmillan Co.) 

Life in the Open, sport with rod, gun, horse, and hound in 
Southern California, by Charles Frederick Holder, illus. 
— Winged Wheels in France, by Michael Meyers Shoe- 
maker, illus. — In Thamesland, cruises and rambles 
through England from the sources of the Thames to the 
sea, by Henry Wellington Wack, F.R.G.S., illus.— 
The Ck)nnecticut Iliver and the Valley of the Connecti- 
cut, historical and descriptive, by Edwin M. Bacon, 
illus., $3.50 net. — The Idyllic Avon, a description of the 
Midland river and of places on or near its banks, by 
John Henry Garrett, illus. (G. P. Putnam's Sons.) 

The Log of a Sea Angler, by Charles F. Holder, $1.50 net. 
— In the March and Borderland of Wales, by A. G. Brad- 
ley, illus., $3. net.— A Satchel Guide, by W. J. Rolfe, 
1906 edition. $1.50 net (Houghton, Mifflin ft Co.) 

Panama to Patagonia, the Isthmian Canal and the west 
coast countries of South America, by Charles M. Pep- 
per, illus., $2.50 net. — Hawaiian Yesterdays, by Dr. Henry 
M. Lyman, illus., $2. net. (A. C. McClurg ft Co.) 

The Philippine Experiences of an American Teacher, by 
William B. Freer, illus., $1.50 net.— Camp Kits and 
Camp Life, by Charles Stedman Hanks, "Niblick," illus., 
$1.50 net. (Charles Scribners Sons.) 

The Philippines, under foreigru and American rule, the 
history and development of the islands since their dis- 
covery, their inhabitants and their resources, by C. G. 
Forbes-Lindsay, with 26 photogravure illustrations, $3. 
net. — America's Insular Possessions, the Philippines, 
Porto Rico, Hawaii, and Guam, including Panama, 
Cuba, Haiti, and Jamaica, by C. H. Forbes-Lindsay, 2 
vols., with 51 photogravure illustrations, $5. — America 
and her Insular Possessions, the United States, the Phil- 
ippines, Hawaii, Porto Rico, and Guam, including Cuba, 
Jamaica, and Haiti, by Joel Cook and C. H. Forbes- 
Lindsay, 5 vols., with 126 photogravure illustrations, 
$12.50. — Panama, the Isthmus and the Canal, by C. H. 
Forbes-Lindsay, illus., $1. net. (John C. Winston Co.) 

Mast and Sail in Europe and Asia, by H. Wartngton 
Smith, M.A., illus., $6. net.— The Africander Land, 
by Archibald R. Colquhon, $5. net. — The Eleven Eaglets 
of the West, by Paul Fountain, $3. net. — Three Men 
in a Motor Car, by Winthrop E. Scarritt, $1.25 net. 
(E. P. Dutton & Co.) 

Siberia, a record of travel, climbing, and exploration, 
by Samuel Turner, F.R.G.S., illus., $6.30 net.— Ethiopia 
in Exile, Jamaica Re-visited, by B. Pullen-Burry, $1.50. 
(A. Wessels Co.) 

Holland Described by Great Writers, edited by Esther 
Singleton, illus., $1.6i3 net. — How to Prepare for Europe, 
by H. A. Guerber, illus., $1.20 net. (Dodd, Mead & Co.) 

Pilgrimages to Old Homes, by Fletcher Moss, illus., $6.50 
net.— Crown Library, new vol.: The Wessex of Thomas 
Hardy, by Bertram Windle, illus., $1.50 net. (John 
Lane Co.) 

The Pass, by Stewart Edward White, illus., $1.50. (Outing 
Publishing (3o.) 

The Complete Pocket Guide to Europe, edited by Edmund 
Clarence Stedman and Thomas L. Stedman, revised for 
1306, $1.25 net. (William R. Jenkins.) 

Across the Plains, by Randall H. Hewitt, illus., $1.50. — 
On the German Coast, by C. Maurice Elfer, illus., $1. 
(Broadway Publishing Co.) 

ART. - AKCHITBCTTJBE. - MTJSIC. 

French Art from Watteau to Prud'hon, limited edition, 
illus. in color and photogravure. — Asian Carpets, 16th 
and 17th century designs from the Jaipur Palaces, text 
by Col. T. H. Handler, illus. in color. — An Almain Ar- 
mourer's Album, from the original manuscript in Victoria 
and Albert Museum, text by Viscount Dillon, F.S.A., 
Illus. In color. — Coins of Ancient Sicily, by G. F. Hill. 
M.A., illus. in collotype, etc., $7.50 net. — English Metal 
Work, 93 drawings by William Twopeny, with preface 
by Laurence Blnyon, $6. net. — The Studio Year-Book of 
Decorative Art, 1906, a guide to the artistic furnishing 
of the house, illus. in color, etc., $2. net. — The Royal In- 
stitute of Painters in Water Colors, by A. Lys Baldry, 
illus. in color, etc., $2. net. (John Lane Co.) 



The Opal Sea, by John C. Van Dyke, with frontispiece, 
$1.25 net.— Gothic Architecture in England, by Francis 
Bond, illus., $12. net.— Drawings of Great Masters series, 
new vols.: Leonardo Da Vinci, by Lewis Hind; Rem- 
brandt, by Malcolm Ball; each illus., $2.50 net.— Master 
Etchers series, new vol. : Van Dyck's Etchings, by Frank 
Newbold, illus., $2.50 net.— Library of the Applied Arts, 
new vols.: French Pottery and Porcelain, by Henry 
Frantz; Sheffield Plate, by B. Wyllle; each illus., $2.50 
net.— An Introduction to Old English Furniture, by W. 
E. Mallet, illus., $1.50 net. (Charles Scribner's Sons.) 

Giovanni Antonio Bazzi (Sodoma), 1477-1549, the man and 
the painter, by Robert H. Hobart Cust, M.A., illus. in 
photogravure, $6. net. — The Museums and Ruins of 
Rome, by Walter Amelung and Heinrich Holtzlnger, 
2 vols., illus., $3. net.— The Decoration of Leather, from 
the French of Georges D. R6cy by Maude Nathan, illus., 
$3. net.— Hans Holbein the Younger, a critical mono- 
graph, by Ford Madox Hueffer, illus., 75 cts. net. — 
Miniature Reference Library, new vol.: A Dictionary 
of Art and Art Terms, architects, engravers, painters, 
sculptors, etc., by Albert M. Hyamson, 50 cts. (E. P. 
Dutton ft Co.) 

Days with Velasquez, by C. Lewis Hind, illus. in color 
and photogravure. — The Royal Academy of Arts, a dic- 
tionary of contributors and their work, 1769-1304, by 
Algernon Graves, F.S.A., Vols. !I. and III., illus., each 
$11. net.— Dictionary of Music and Musicians, by Sir 
George Grove, revised and enlarged edition in 5 vols.. 
Vol. II., illus., $5. net. (Macmillan Ck).) 

The Essentials of Aesthetics, as applied to music, poetry, 
painting, sculpture, and architecture, by George Lansing 
Raymond, L.H.D., illus.— The Connoisseur's Library, 
edited by Cyril Davenport, new vol. : Enamels, by H. H. 
Cunynghame, illus., $6.75 net.— A History of English 
Furniture, by Percy Macquold, R.I., Vol. II., The Age 
of Walnut, illus., $15. net. (G. P. Putnam's Sons.) 

The Art of Organ Building, by George Ashdown Audsley, 
2 vols., illus., $20. net. (Dodd, Mead & Co.) 

Landscape Painting and Modern Dutch Artists, by B. B. 
Greenshields, illus., $2. net. (Baker & Taylor Co.) 

The New Art of an Ancient People, the work of Ephraim 
Moses Lilien, by M. S. Levussove, illus. (B. W. 
Huebsch.) 

Cathedrals of England and Wales, by T. Francis Bumpas, 
in 3 vols.. Vol. II., $2. net. (James Pott & Co.) 

NATTJBE AKD OUT-OP-DOOB BOOKS. 

The Frog Book, by Mary C. Dlckerson, illus, in color, etc., 
$4. net. — Country Life m America Library, new vols.: 
The Country House, by Charles Edward Hooper, illus., $3. 
net; How to Make a Fruit Garden, by S. W. Fletcher, 
illus., $2, net-— Garden Library, new vols.: Ferns and How 
Grow Them, by G. A. Woolson; Daffodils and How to 
Grow Them; each illus., $1.10 net.— Farm Library, VoL 
v.. Cotton, by Charles W. Burkett, Illus., $2. net. — 
The Dog Book, by James Watson, Parts VII. to X., com- 
pleting the work, illus., per part $1.10 net, (Doubleday, 
Page ft Co.) 

Bombay Ducks, an account of some of the every-day birds 
and l)easts found m a naturalist's El Dorado, by Doug- 
las Dewar, B.A., illus., $5. net.— The Wild Flowers of 
Selborne, and other papers, by Rev. J. Vaughan, M.A., 
and Hon. Canon, Illus., $1.50 net. — Country Handbooks, 
new vols.: The Little Farm; The Country Cottage, by 
(Jeorge Llewellyn Morris and Esther Wood; each illns.. 
$1. net.— Handbooks of Practical Gardening, new vols.: 
The Book of Rarer Vegetables, by George Wythes, V. 
M.H., and Harry Roberts; The Book of Winter Garden, 
by D. S. Fish; each illus., $1. net. (John Lane Co.) 

Cyclopedia of American Horticulture, edited by Prof. L. 
H. Bailey, In 4 vols.. Vol. I.— The Garden, You, and I, 
by Mabel Osgood Wright, Illus.— The New Earth, by W. 
S. Harwood.— The Life of Animals, by Ernest IngersoU, 
illus. (Macmillan Co.) 

The Bird, by Dr. C. William Beebe, illus.— The Develop- 
ment of the Fern, by Margaret Slosson. illus. (Henry 
Holt ft Co.) 

The Art of Garden Design in Italy, by H. Inigo Triggs, 
A.R.I.B.A., illus in collotype, etc.— Plants and their 
Ways in South Africa, by Bertha Stoneman.— Plant Re- 
sponse, by Jagadis Chunder Bose, C.I.E., illus. (Long- 
mans, Green, & Co.) 

The Seasons in a Flower Garden, a handbook of instruc- 
tion and information for the amateur, by Louise Shelton. 
(Charles Scribner's Sons.) 

Mountain Wild Flowers of America, by Julia W. Henshaw, 
illus., $2. net. (Ginn ft Co.) 

Common Sense Gardens, by Cornelius V. V. Sewell, illus., 
$2. net. (The Grafton Press.) 

The Impressions of an Idler, by Charles C. Abbott, M.D., 
$1.50 net. (George W. Jacobs & Co.) 



208 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



SCIENCE AND TECHNOL.Oa7. 

The Biology of the Frog, by Prof. S. J. Holmes.— Sanitary 
and Applied Chemistry, by Dr. E. H. S. Bailey, Ph.D., 
illus.— The Evolution of the Horse, by Prof. Henry F. 
Osborn.— Columbia Biological Series, new vols.: The Dy- 
namics of Living Matter, by Jacques Loeb, M.D. ; The 
Behaviour of the Lower Organisms, by Prof. H. S. Jen- 
nings; The Structure and Habits of Ants, by Prof. Wil- 
liam R. Wheeler. — The Manufacture of Wine, by Paul 
Pacottet, trans, by Frederick T. Bioletti, illus.— Prac- 
tical Text-Book of Plant Pathology, by D. F. Mac- 
Dougal, Prof. F. S. Earle, and Prof. H. M. Richards.— 
A Compendium of Spherical Astronomy, with its appli- 
cation to the determination and reduction of positions 
of the fixed stars, by Simon Newcomb, Ph.D. — Introduc- 
tion to Astronomy, by Forest Ray Moulton, A.B. — Ele- 
ments of Electro-Chemistry, by M. Leblanc, trans, by 
W. R. Whitney, new edition, from the third German 
edition, revised and brought up to date by Dr. J. W. 
Brown. — Elements of Electrical Engineering, by Prof. 
William Esty and Prof. W. S. Franklin.— Outlines of 
the Evolution of Weights and Measures and the Metric 
System, by William Hallock, Ph.D., and Herbert T. 
Wade.— Soils, by E. W. Hilgard.— Plant Breeding, by 
Prof. L. H. Bailey, fourth edition, revised and enlarged, 
illus. (Macmillan Co.) 

The Nature and Origin of Living Matter, by H. Charlton 
Bastian, M.A., illus., $3.50 net. — Motor Vehicles and 
Motors, treating of their design, construction, and work- 
ing, by steam, oil, and electricity, by W. Worby Beau- 
mont, Vol. II., $10. net. — Dairy Analysis, by Henry Droop 
Richmond, $1. net.— Gas, Oil, and Air Engines, by Bryan 
Donkin, illus., $1.50 net.— Glue, Gelatine, and their Al- 
lied Products, by Thomas Lambert, $1.75 net. (J. B. 
Lippincott Co.) 

Suess's Face of the Earth, Vol. II., trans, by Dr. Hertha 
Sollas.— Pfeffer's Physiology of Plants, Vol. III., conclud- 
ing the work.— Knuth's Flower Pollination, trans, by J. 
Ainsworth Davis.— A Catalogue of the Herbarium of 
Dillenius, by G. Claridge Druce and Prof. Vines. (Oxford 
University Press.) 

Racial Descent in Animals, by Prof. Thomas H. Mont- 
gomery, Jr.— Geology, by Thomas C. Chamberlin and 
Rollin D. Salisbury, Vols. II. and III., Earth History, 
Illus., $8. net. (Henry Holt & Co.) 

Radioactive Transformations, by Ernest Rutherford, illus., 
$3.50 net. — The Integrative Action of the Nervous System, 
by Charles S. Sherrington, M.D., $3.50 net. (Charles 
Scribner's Sons.) 

The Riddle of Astronomy, by Simon Newcomb, LL.D., $2. 
net. (Harper & Brothers.) 

Thunder and Lightning, by Camille Flammarion, trans, by 
Walter Mostyn, illus., $1.25 net. (Little, Brown, & Ck).) 

Sex and Character, by Otto Weininger, authorized trans- 
lation from the sixth German edition, $3. net. (G. P. 
Putnam's Sons.) 

Valves and Valve Gear Mechanisms, by W. E. Dalby, M.A., 
illus. — The Scientific Principles of Wireless Telegraphy, 
by J. A. Fleming, M.A.— Modern Steam Road Wagons, 
by Williarn Norris, A.M., illus. — The Design of Lathes 
for High Speed and Heavy Cutting, by J. T. Nicolson 
and Dempster Smith.— A Practical Manual of Tides and 
Waves, by W. H. Wheeler, illus. (Longmans, Green, 
& Co.) 

Collodion Emulsion, a text-book for photographers, by H. 
O. Klein, illus., $2.50.— Penrose Pocket Book and Diary 
for 1906, by W. Gamble, 50 cts. (Tennant & Ward.) 

SOCIOLOGY. — POLITICS. — ECONOHICS. 

The Negro and the Nation, by George S. Merriam. — Studies 
in American Trades Unionism, by oflBcers and students 
of Johns Hopkins University, edited by Prof. J. H. 
Hollander and Prof. George E. Barnett. — Citizenship and 
the Schools, by Prof. Jeremiah W. Jenks.— American 
Public Problem series, edited by Ralph Curtis Ringwalt, 
first vols.: Immigration and its Effects upon the United 
States, by Prescott F. Hall; The Election of Senators, 
by Prof. G. H. Haynes.— Heredity in Royalty, by Dr. 
Frederick Adams Wood, illus. (Henry Holt & Co.) 

A Living Wage, by Rev. John A. Ryan, S.T.L., with 
preface by Richard Ely, Ph.D.— The Bitter Cry of the 
Children, by John Spargo, with introduction by Robert 
Hunter.— Readings in Descriptive and Historical Sociolo- 
gy, by Franklin H. Giddings, Ph.D.— Efiiciency and Re- 
lief, by Prof. Edward T. Devine.— The American Com- 
monwealth, by James Bryce, abridged edition, newly re- 
vised to date and enlarged. (Macmillan Co.) 

The Electoral System of the United States, by J. Hampden 
Dougherty, $2.50 net.— Studies in Socialism, by Jean 
Jaur§s, translated with an introduction by Mildred Min- 
turn.— The Congo, a report of the Commission of Enquiry 
appointed by the Congo Free State government. (G. P. 
Putnam's Sons.) 



Industrial Efficiency, a comparative study of industrial 
life in England, Germany, and America, by Arthur Shad- 
well, M.A., $7. net. — A History of Modern Liberty, by 
James Mackinnon, Ph.D., 2 vols., $1U. net.— Commercial 
Supremacy and Imperialism, by Victor Berard, trans, 
from the French by H. W. Foskett, M.A., $2.60 net.— 
Land Reform, occupying ownership, peasant, proprietary, 
and rural education, by Rt. Hon. Jesse Collings, J. P.— The 
Subjection of Women, by John Stuart Mill, new edition, 
edited, with introductory analysis, by Stanton Coit, Ph.D., 
40 cts. net. (Longmans, Green, & Co.) 

Sociology and Social Progress, by Thomas Nixon Carver, 
$3.30 net.— Trade Unionism and Labor Problems, by John 
R. Commons, $2.50 net.— Selected Readings in Public 
Finance, by Charles J. Bullock, $2.70 net. — Money and 
Currency, by Joseph French Johnson, $2. net— The 
Moral Damage of War, by Walter Walsh. (Ginn & Co.) 

Enemies of the Republic, by Lincoln Steffens, $1.20 net. — 
The Cost of Competition, by Sidney A. Reeve, illus., $2 
net. — The New Idolatry, by Washington Gladden, $1.20 
net. (McClure, Phillips & Co.) 

Report on Colonial Administration in the Far East, by 
Alleyne Ireland, F.R.G.S., to be complete in 10 or 12 
vols.. Vol. I., Burma. (Small, Maynard & Co.) 

History of Naturalization in the United States, by Frank 
G. Franklin. — The Social Ideals of Alfred Tennyson as 
Related to his Time, by W. C. Gordon, $1. net. (Uni- 
versity of Chicago Press.) 

Man, the Social Creator, by Henry Demarest Lloyd, with 
portrait, $2. net.— How to Buy Life Insurance, by "Q. 
P.", $1.20 net. (Doubleday, Page & Co.) 

The Heart of the Railroad Problem, the history of railway 
discrimination in the United States, with efforts at 
control, remedies proposed, and hints from other coun- 
tries, by Prof. Frank Parsons, Ph.D., $1.50 net. (Little^ 
Brown, & Co.) 

The New Far East, by Thomas F. Millard. $1.50 net. 
(Charles Scribner's Sons.) 

The Country Town, by Wilbert L. Anderson, with intro- 
duction by Josiah Strong, $1. net.— Social Progress, 1906, 
edited by Josiah Strong, $1. net. (Baker & Taylor Co.) 

Elements of Political Science, by Stephen Leacock. 
(Houghton, MiflSin & Co.) 

The Fall of Tsardom, by Carl Joubert, $2. net. (J. B. 
Lippincott Co.) 

The Battles of Labor, by Carroll D. Wright, $1. net. 
(George W. Jacobs & Co.) 

Ocean and Inland Water Transportation, by Emory R. 
Johnson, illus., $1.50 net. (D. Appleton & Co.) 

Social Aspects of Christian Morality, by W. S. Bruce,. 
D.D., $3.50 net. — Labor Legislation, labor movements, 
and labor leaders, by George Howell, F.S.S., 2 vols., 
$2.50 net. (E. P. Dutton & Co.) 

Future Forest Trees, by A. Harold Unwin, illus., $2.25 
net. (A. Wessels Co.) 

Model Factories and Villages, ideal conditions of labor 
and housing, by Budgett Meakin, illus., $1.90. (A. Wes- 
sels Co.) 

The Foundations of the Republic, by Rev. Edward Everett 
Hale, with portrait, 75 cts.— Undistinguished Americans, 
$1.50. (James Pott & Co.) 

PHILOSOPHY AND PSYCHOLOGY. 

The Theory of Morality, by Dr. Rashdall, 2 vols.— Essay 
on Truth, by H. H. Joachim. — Introduction to Logic, 
by H. W. B. Joseph. — Ancient Greek Theories of the 
Senses, by J. I. Beare. (Oxford University Press.) 

The History of English Rationalism in the Nineteenth 
Century, by Alfred W. Benn, 2 vols.— History of Intel- 
lectual Development, on the lines of modern evolution, 
by John Beattie Crozier, LL.D., Vol. IV., A Reconstruc- 
tion of the Science and Art of Political Economy. — The 
Key to the World's Progress, an essay in historical 
logic, by Charles Stanton Devas, M.A., $1.60 net. — ^Sym- 
bolic Logic and its Applications, by Hugh Maccoll, B.A., 
$1.50 net. (Longmans, Green, & Co.) 

A Short History of Freethought, ancient and modern, by 
John M. Robertson, second edition, rewritten and greatly 
enlarged, 2 vols. — Poetry and the Individual, an analysis 
of the imaginative life in relation to the creative spirit 
in man and nature, by Hartley Bun Alexander, Ph.D., 
$1.50 net.— The Ethics of Wagner's Ring of the Nibelun- 
gen, by Mary Elizabeth Lewis. (G. P. Putnam's Sons.) 

Bibliography of Philosophy, by Benjamin Rand, Ph.D., 
to be published as Part III. of Baldwin's "Dictionary of 
Philosophy and Psychology," and also as a separate work 
in 2 parts. (Macmillan Co.) 

The Meaning of Good, by G. Lowes Dickinson, $1.20 net. — 
The Greek View of Life, by G. Lowes Dickinson, $1. net. 
(McClure, Phillips & Co.) 

The Life of Reason, by George Santayana, concluding vol.: 
Reason in Science, $1.25 net. (Charles Scribner's Sons.) 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



209 



The Subconscious, by Joseph Jastrow. (Houghton, Mifflin 
& Co.) 

The Economy of Happiness, by James F. Mackaye, |2.50 
net. (Little, Brown, & Co.) 

Enigmas of Psychical Research, by James H. Hyslop, Ph. 
D., $1.50 net. (Herbert B. Turner & Co.) 

Right and Wrong Thinking and their Results, by Aaron 
Martin Crane, J1.40 net. (Lothrop, Lee & Shepard Co.) 

Justice, its place in education and social morals, by Pat- 
terson Du Bois, $1. (Dodd, Mead & Co.) 

MEJilCllSrE AND EnTGISKS. 

A Manual of Diseases of the Nose and its Accessory Cavi- 
ties, by H. Lambert Lack, M.D., illus.— Recent Advances 
In Physiology, by various writers, edited by Leonard Hill, 
$5. net.— A Manual of Pharmacology, by Dr. Walter E. 
Nixon, M.A., $4. net.— The Health of our Children in 
the Colonies, a book for mothers, by Lilian Austin Robin- 
son, M.D., 90 cts. net (Longmans, Green, & Co.) 

The Muscles of the Eye, by Dr. Lucien Howe, M.A., with 
bibliography, 2 vols., illus. — Diagnosis of Organic Nervous 
Diseases, by Christian A. Herter, M.D., revised by L. 
Pierce Clark, M.D., illus.— A Manual of Prescription 
Writing, by Matthew D. Mann, A.M., sixth edition, re- 
vised, enlarged, and corrected. (G. P. Putnam's Sons.) 

A System of Medicine, by many writers, edited by Thomas 
Clifford Allbutt, M.A., and Humphrey Davy Rolleston, 
M.A., new edition, revised and enlarged. Vol. I., Pro- 
legomena, Fevers, illus., $5. net. — Black's Medical Dic- 
tionary, illus. (Macmillan Co.) 

Consumption, its relation to man and his civilization, by 
John Bessner Huber, M.D., illus.— Hand-Book of Medi- 
cine for Nurses, by J. Norman Henry, M.D. (J. B. Lip- 
plncott Co.) 

Humanlculture, by Dr. Hubert Higgins, |1.20 net.— Child- 
hood and Growth, by Lafayette B. Mendel, 60 cts. net. 
(Frederick A. Stokes Co.) 

Nature and Health, by Dr. Edward Curtis, $1.25 net 
(Henry Holt & Co.) 

Eating to Live, by John Janvier Black, M.D. (J. B. 
Lippincott Co.) 

A System of Surgical Nursing, by A. N. McGregor, 
M.D. (Small, Maynard & Co.) 

The Household Osteopath, by F. J. Feldler, Illus., $1. 
(Broadway Publishing Co.) 

THEOLOGY AND RELIGION. 

International Critical Commentary, new title: The Book of 
Psalms, by Charles A. Briggs, D.D., 2 vols.— The Ref- 
ormation, by George Park Fisher, D.D., revised edition, 
$2.50 net.— The Apostolic Age in the Light of Modern 
Criticism, by James Hardy Ropes, A.B., $1.50 net.— 
The Development of Palestine Exploration, by Frederic 
Jones Bliss, Ph.D., $1.50 net— The Problem of the Old 
Testament, by James Orr, $1.50 net. — The Origin and 
Permanent Value of the Old Testament, by Charles 
Foster Kent, Ph.D., $1. net.— The Testimony of St Paul 
to Christ, as viewed in some of its aspects, by R. J. 
Knowling, D.D., $3. net.— The Evangel of the New 
Theology, sermons by T. Rhondda Williams, $1.50 net 
(Charles Scribner's Sons.) 

Synthetica, being meditations epistemological and ontolog- 
ical, by S. S. Laurie, LL.D., 2 vols. — Clerical Life, char- 
acters and colloquies. — The Book of Angels, by L. P., 
illus. — The Westminster Library, new vol.: The Tradition 
of Scripture, its origin, authority, and interpretation, by 
Rev. William Barry, $1.20 net.— Pastoral Work In Coun- 
try Districts, by Rev. V. S. S. Coles, M.A., $1.20 net- 
Psalms for the Christian Festivals, by Elizabeth Words- 
worth, $1. net — Confession and Absolution, by Rev. A. 
G. Mortimer, 75 cts. net.— The Mission of Help to the 
Church in South Africa, what it has done and what It 
has taught us, by Arthur W. Robinson, D.D., 50 cts. 
net— Simple Guides to Christian Knowledge, edited by 
Florence Robinson, cheaper edition, comprising: Story 
of Our Lord's Life, by Mrs. H. H. Montgomery; Early 
Story of Israel, by Mrs. J. S. Thomas; Teaching of the 
Catechism, by Beatrice A. Ward; Work of the Prophets, 
by Rose E. Selfe; How to Use the Prayer-Book, by 
Mrs. G. J. Romanes; How the Church Began, by Rev. 
R. B. Rackham, M.A.; each illus., 60 cts. net. (Long- 
mans, Green, & Co.) 

The Christian Doctrine of Atonement, in liistory and mod- 
ern thought, by R. J. Campbell. — A History of the 
English Church, edited by Dean Stephens and Rev. W. 
Hunt; Vol. VII., The Eighteenth Century, by Rev. Canon 
Overton and Rev. F. Pelton; Vol. VIII., The Nineteenth 
Century, by F. W. Warre Cornish, M.A.; per vol., $2. 
net. (Macmillan Co. ) 

What is Religion? and Other Student Questions, by Henry 
S. Pritchett, $1. net.— Individuality and Immortality, by 
Wilhelm Ostwald, 75 cts. net.— The Personality of Jesus, 
by Charles H. Barrows. (Houghton, MiflBin & Co.) 



The True Doctrine of Prayer, by Leander T. Chamberlain^ 
with foreword by Rev. William R. Huntington, D.D., $L 
net— The Bible and Spiritual Criticism, by Arthur T. 
Pierson, $1. net (Baker ft Taylor Co.) 

The Finality of the Christian Religion, by George B. 
Foster, $4. net. (University of Chicago Press.) 

Synthetic Bible Studies, by James M. Gray, D.D., $1.60 
net— A Harmony of Samuel, Kings, and Chronicles, by 
William Day Crockett, $1.50 net— The Greek Testament 
and Lexicon, by Prof. Eberhard Nestle, Ph.D., $1.50 net. 
— Christian Missions and Social Progress, a sociological 
study of foreign missions, by James S. Dennis, D.D., 
VoL III., illus., $2.50 net— A Primer of the Faith, by 
James M. Gray, D.D., $1. net— Living in the Sunshine, 
by Hannah Whitall Smith (Mrs. Pearsall Smith), $1. 
net. — Church Federation, the Inter-Church Conference, 
1905, edited by E. B. Sanford, D.D., illus., $2. net- 
As Jesus Passed By, and other addresses, by Gipsy 
Smith, $1. net. — Method in Soul-Winning, on home and 
foreign fields, by Henry C. Mabie, D.D., 75 cts. net- 
Ashes of Roses, by Rev. W. L. Watkinson, $1. net — 
Raising the Average, by Don O. Shelton, 50 cts. net — 
The Forgotten Secret, by W. J. Dawson, 50 cts. net — 
How to Succeed in the Christian Life, by R. A. Torrey, 
50 cts. net— Faith and the Faith, by T. T. Eaton, D.D., 
50 cts. net (Fleming H. Revell Co.) 

Future Life, in the light of ancient wisdom and modern 
science, by Louis Elb6, authorized translation, with 
frontispiece, $1.20 net. (A. C. McClurg & Co.) 

Christian Origins, by Otto Pfleiderer, D.D., trans, by 
Daniel A. Huebsch, Ph.D. (B. W. Huebsch.) 

The Book of Daniel and Modern Criticism, Daniel and his 
prophecies considered in relation to modem criticism, by 
Rev. Charles H. H. Wright, D.D., $2.50 net (LitUe, 
Brown, ft Co.) 

The Twentieth Century Christ, by Paul Karisbka, $1. net 
(Lothrop, Lee ft Shepard Co.) 

The New Hymnal, edited by Rev. Herbert B. Turner, D. 
D., and William F. Biddle. (A. S. Barnes & Co.) 

The Parables of Jesus, by the Bishop of Stepney, $L50. 
(E. P. Dutton & Co.) 

The Double Search, studies in atonement and prayer, by 
Rufus M. Jones, 75 cts. (John C. Winston Co.) 

The Happy Christ, by Harold Begbie. $1. net (Dodd, 
Mead & Co.) 

Some Trinitarian Forgeries, stated by a monotheist, $1. 
net (The Grafton Press.) 

NEW EDITIONS OF STANDARD LITESATT7IIE. 

Everyman's Library, a series of the choicest literature 
of all ages and peoples, edited by Ernest Rhys, 100 vols, 
to be issued this spring, per vol., cloth 50 cts., leather 
$1. — The Works of Heinrich Heine, library edition, 
trans, by Charles Godfrey Leland, Thomas Brooksbank, 
and Margaret Armour, 12 vols., $25. — New Universal 
Library, new vols.: Tyndall's Glaciers of the Ali>8, 
Peacock's Novels Vol. II., Reade's Hard Cash, Life of 
St. Columba; each 50 cts.— Diary of Samuel Pepys, with 
Lord Braybrooke's notes, $2.— Muse's Library, new vol.: 
Poems of Browning, with introduction by Oscar Brown- 
ing, M.A., 50 cts. (E. P. Dutton & Co.) 

Life and Writings of Benjamin Franklin, edited by Albert 
H. Smyth, in 10 vols., Vols. lU. to VII. to appear this 
spring, Illus., per vol., $3. net — Works of Maurice Hew- 
lett, limited large-paper edition, in 10 vols.. Vols. VI. 
to X. to appear this spring, per vol., $3. net — Kaempfer's 
History of Japan in 1693, trans, from the Dutch by J. 
G. Scheuchzer, F.R.S., limited edition. In 3 vols., Illus. — 
Hakluytus Posthumus, by Samuel Purchas, B.D., lim- 
ited edition de Inxe, in 20 vols.. Vols. IX. to XII. to ap- 
pear this spring, illus., per vol., $3.25 net. (Macmil- 
lan Co.) 

French Classics for English Readers, edited by Adolphe 
Cohn, LL.B., and Curtis Hidden Page, Ph.D., new titles: 
Montaigne, 1603, $2. net; Moli6re, 2 vols., $4. net — Les 
Classiques Francais, edited by H. D. O'Connor, new 
vols.: George Sand's La Mare au Diable, Alexandre 
Dumas's La Tulipe Noire, Maxlmes de La Rochefoucauld, 
Lettres Choisies de Madame de Sevign6, Pensefes de 
Pascal, Essais de Montaigne; each $1. net. (G. P. Put- 
nam's Sons.) 

The Triumphs, by Petrarch, trans, by Henry Boyd, with 
Introduction by Guido Biagi and a paper on the illustra- 
tions by Sidney Colvin, limited edition, $40. net (Little, 
Brown, ft Co.) 

New Pocket Edition of the Works of George Meredith, in 
16 vols., each 75 cts. (Charles Scribner's Sons.) 

The Poetical Works of Lord Byron, edited by Ernest Hart- 
ley Coleridge, with portrait, $1.50 net. (Charles Scrib- 
ner's Sons.) 

Poems of Italy, by Giosue Carducci, trans, by M. W. Arms, 
limited edition, with photogravure portrait. (The Graf- 
ton Press.) 



210 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



New Pocket Library, new vols.: Orley Farm (2 vols.). 

Rachel Ray, The Kellys and the O'Kellys, by Anthony 

Trollope, with introductions by Algar Thorold, per vol., 

75 cts. net. (John Lane Co.) 
Manor House Novels, by Anthony Trollope, new title: 

The Vicar of Bullhampton, 2 vols., $2.50. (Dodd, Mead 

& Co.) 

BOOKS FOR THE YOUNG. 

The Larky Furnace, by Hildegard Brooks, illus.— The Girls 
of Gardenville, by Carroll Watson Rankin.— A Summer 
in Apple Tree Inn, by Ella Partridge Lipsett.— Champ- 
lin's Young Folks' Cyclopaedia of Common Things, re- 
vised and enlarged edition. (Henry Holt & Co.) 

Up and Doing Series, by Edward S. Ellis, 3 vols., com- 
prising: Limber Lew, The Cruise of the Firefly, A 
Hunt on Snowshoes; each illus., 75 cts.— Home and 
Foreign Series, by Edward S. Ellis, 3 vols., comprising: 
Lost in the Forbidden Land, River and Jungle, The 
Hunt of the White Elephant; each illus., 75 cts.— A 
Heroine of the Wilderness, the story of Lincoln's 
mother of Hezekiah Butterworth, illus., $1.— Andiron 
Tales, by John Kendrick Bangs, illus. in color, $1. net.— 
By Love's Sweet Rule, a story for girls, by Gabrielle 
Emilie Jackson, illus., 75 cts. (John C. Winston Co.) 

Under Togo for Japan, by Edward Stratemeyer, illus., 
$1.25.— Stories by J. T. Trowbridge, comprising: Cudjo's 
Cave, The Three Scouts, and The Drummer Boy, new 
popular edition.— The Little Prudy Books, by Sophie 
May, new popular edition, 6 vols. (Lothrop, Lee & Shep- 
ard Co.) 

Harper's Young People Series, new vols.: Phil and the 
Baby, by Lucy C. Lillie; The False Witness, by Lucy 
C. Lillie; Alice's Adventures In Wonderland, Through 
the Looking Glass, and The Hunting of the Snark, by 
Lewis Carroll, illus. by Peter Newell; each 60 eta 
(Harper & Brothers.) 

Birds Every Child Should Know, by Wm. L. Finley, 
illus., 90 cts. net.— Heroes Every Child Should Know, 
edited by Hamilton W. Mabie, illus., 90 cts. net. (Dou- 
bleday. Page & Co.) 

Brown of Moukden, a story of the Russo-Japanese War, by 
Herbert Strang, illus., $1.50. (G. P. Putnam's Sons.) 

The Rainy Day Railroad War, by Holman F. Day, illus., 
$1. (A. S. Barnes & Co.) 

Witch Crow and Barney Bylow, by James Ball Naylor, 
illus. in color, $1.— The Pond in the Marshy Meadow, by 
Anne H. WoodrufiE, illus., $1.50.— Danny, by Jean K. 
Baird, lilus., 60 cts.— Cash Three, by Jean K. Baird, 
illus., 60 cts.— The Fairy Chaser, and other stories, 
illus., 60 cts. (Saalfleld Publishing Co.) 

Days and Deeds, a collection of commemorative verse 
for children, compiled by Burton E. and Elizabeth B. 
Stevenson, $1. net. (Baker & Taylor Co.) 

EDUCATION. 

Dynamic Factors in Education, by M. V. O'Shea. — The 
Physical Nature of the Child, and how to study it, by 
S. H. Rowe, revised edition, $1. net.— The Grading of 
Schools, by William J. Shearer, A.M., revised edition.— 
Grammar School History of the United States, by Henry 
W. Elson, illus.— Beginnings in Agriculture, by L. H. 
Bailey, illus.^Course of Study in the Eight Grades, 
by Charles A. McMurry, Ph.D., 2 vols. — Methods in Ele- 
mentary School Studies, by Bernard Cronson, A.B. — 
Outline History of the English Language, by Oliver 
Farrar Emerson, A.M. — English Grammar for Begin- 
ners, by James P. Kinard, Ph.D. — The Modern English 
Course, by Henry P. Emerson and Ida C. Bender, two 
books. — City Government for Young People, by Charles 
Dwight Willard. — How We Are Sheltered, by James 
Franklin Chamberlain. — Caesar's Gallic War, edited by 
A. L. Hodges. — An Elementary Logic, by John E. Rus- 
sell, M.A. — A Country Reader, Books I. and II., by H. B. 
M. Buchanan, B.A., American edition prepared by Arnold 
v. Stubenrauch, illus. — La Chanson De Roland, edited 
by J. A. Geddes, Jr., Ph.D. — Macmillan's Pocket Classics, 
new vols.: Lamb's Essays of Elia, edited by Helen J. 
Robins; Thackeray's Henry Esmond, edited by John Bell 
Henneman; Washington's Farewell Address and Web- 
ster's Bunker Plill Oration, edited by William T. Peck; 
Dickens's Tale of Two Cities, edited by H. H. Buhler; 
Longfellow's Tales of a Wayside Inn, edited by J. H. 
Castleman; De Quincy's Joan of Arc and The English 
Mail Coach, edited by Carol M. Newman; Bryant's 
Thanatopsis, Sella, and Other Poems, edited by J. H. 
Castleman; each 25 cts. net. — Baker and Carpenter's 
Language Reader Series, 6 vols., illus. — Maryland Supple- 
ment to Tarr and McMurry's Geography, by M. W. 
Twitchell, Ph.D., illus. (Macmillan Co.) 

Belles-Lettres Series, new vols.: The Gospel of Luke in 
West Saxon, edited by Prof. J. W. Bright; Select Poems 
of Robert Browning, edited by Dr. Richard Burton; 
Lillo's The London Merchant and Fatal Curiosity, edited 



by A. W. Ward; Beaumont and Fletcher's The Maid's 
Tragedy and Philaster, edited by Prof. A. H. Thorndike; 
Swinburne's Mary Stuart, edited by William Morton 
Payne; each 60 cts.— The Elements of Physics, by S. B. 
Coleman, $1.25.— Physics, theoretical and descriptive, by 
H. C. Cheston, J. S. Gibson, and C. E. Timmerman, 
$1.25.— Physiology, practical and descriptive, by Prof. B. 
P. Colton. — Practical Physiology, a series of experiments, 
by Prof. B. P. Colton, 60 cts.— Good Health for Girls and 
Boys, a primary of physiology, by B. M. Brown, 45 cts.— 
Alegbra for Secondary Schools, by Prof. Webster Wells, 
$1.20.— Higher Arithmetic, by Prof. W. S. Sutton and 
Dr. H. W. Bruce.— Lower Arithmetic, by Prof. W. S 
Sutton and Dr. W. H. Bruce.— Exercise Book in Geom- 
etry, by D. Sands Wright, BO cts.— A Primary Arith- 
metic, by Bruce M. Watson and Charles E. White, 35 
cts.— Days and Deeds a Hundred Years Ago, by Gertrude 
L. Stone and M. Grace Fickett, 40 cts.— Modern Lan- 
guage Series, new vols.: La BruySre's Les Caractdres, 
edited by Prof. F. M. Warren; Valdds's La Algeria del 
Capitan Ribot, edited by F. W. Morrison and P. H. 
Churchman; Moinaux's Les Deux Sourds, edited by I. 
H. B. Spiers, 25 cts.; Labiche's La Grammaire, edited 
by Prof. Moritz Levi, 25 cts.; MSthode Henin, edited by 

B. L. Henin, 50 cts.; Talne's L'Ancien Regime, edited by 
W. F. Giese, 65 cts.; A First Year of French, edited by 
J. E. Mansion, 50 cts.; Seidel's Aus Goldenen Tagen. 
edited by Dr. Wilhelm Bernhardt. (D. C. Heath & Co.) 

Forty Lessons in Physics, by Lynn B. McMullen.— A 
Course in Narration, by Prof. Gertrude Buck.— A Prac- 
tice Book in English Composition, by Alfred Hitchcock. 
—Temple School Shakespeare, new vol.: The Mid-Sum- 
mer Night's Dream, illus.— Introduction to Scientific 
German, by F. W. Meisnest.— A German Primer, by Prof. 
Lewis A. Rhoades and Miss Schneider.— Material for Ger- 
man Composition, by Dr. A. C. von Noe.— Wildenbruch's 
Das Edle Blut, edited by A. K. Hardy.— Saar's Die Steln- 
Klopfer, edited by Charles H. Handschin and Edwin C. 
Roeder.— Pailleron's L'Etincelle, edited by Prof. O. G. 
Guerlac— Theuriett's L'Abbe Daniel, edited by Prof. Rob- 
ert L. Taylor.— Hugo's Odes et Ballades, edited by Prof. 
A. G. Canfleld.— Moliere's TartufEe, edited by Prof. 
John E. Matzke. (Henry Holt & Co.) 

The School Life, by Charles B. Gilbert— Stories of Colony 
and Nation series, new vols.: The Essentials of United 
States History, by William A. Mowry and Blanche S. 
Mowry; The War of 1812, by Everett T. Tomlinson.— 
Songs of America and Homeland, by Col. C. W. John- 
son.— Books by Charles H. Stowell, M.D., revised editions, 
comprising: A Healthy Body, A Primer of Health, and 
The Essentials of Health.— Through France and the 
French Syntax, by R. L. Sanderson. — Silver Series of 
Classics, new vols.: Tennyson's In Memoriam, edited by 
Vernon P. Squires; Selections from Poe, edited by 
Charles Marshall Graves; each illus. — The World and its 
People series, new vol.: Views in Africa, by Anna B. 
Badiam, revised edition. — Guide to English, Book I., by 
Charles B. Gilbert and Ada Van Stone Harris. (Silver, 
Burdett & Co.) 

The German Universities, by Friedrich Paulsen, trans, by 
Frank Thilly, Ph.D. and William W. Elwang, Ph.D.— 
Essential Latin Lessons, by Arthur W. Roberts and John 

C. Rolfe. — Advanced Geography, by Charles F. King, 
illus. in color, $1.25 net. — Stories of American Explorers, 
by Wilbur Piske Gordy, illus.- Stories from New York 
History, by Sherman Williams, illus. — The Robin Reader, 
by Minnie T. Varney, illus. in color.— Robert Louis 
Stevenson Reader, edited by Catherine S. Bryce, illus. In 
color, 40 cts. net. (Charles Scribner's Sons.) 

Readings in European History, by James Harvey Robin- 
son, 2 vols., each $1.80.— Paper Sloyd, by Ednah Anne 
Rich., illus., $1.20.— A Home Geography of New York 
City, by Gustave Straubenmiiller, illus., 75 cts. net.— 
"Once Upon a Time Series", new vol.: Moni the Goat 
Boy, and other stories, by Johanna Spyri, illus., 65 cts. 
(Ginn & Co.) 

Von Wilamowitz-MoellendorfE's Greek Reader, Vol. II., 
trans, by E. C. Marchant. — Plautus's Mostellaria, edited 
by Prof. Sonnensehein. — Pierce the Ploughman's Crede, 
by Prof. Skeat. — Elementary Chemistry, Part II., by F. 
R. L. Wilson and G. W. Hedley.— Oxford Higher French 
Series, first vols.: Madame de Stael's I'Allemagne, edited 
by H. W. Eve; Hugo's Notre-Dame de Paris, edited by 
L. Delbos; Gautier's Trois Grotesques, edited by H. J. 
Chaytor; Madame de Campan's Memoires, edited by H. 
C. Bradby.— Oxford Modern French Series, new vols.: 
Erckmann-Chatrian's L'histoire d'un Homme du Peuple, 
edited by R. E. A. Chessex; Stories from Le Feuillet- 
oniste, edited by G. C. Brereton. (Oxford University 
Press.) 

Parker's Talks on Teaching. — Hughes's Mistakes in Teach- 
ing.— Hughes's Securing and Retaining Attention.— Kel- 
logg's Elementary Psychology.— Connell and Wise's Out- 
lines for Primary and Kindergarten Classes.— Kellogg's 
Pestalozzi. — Willis and Farnum's Month by Month Books. 
—Shaw's National Question Book. — How to Celebrate 
Thanksgiving and Christmas. (A. S. Barnes & Co.) 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



211 



American Hero Stories, by Eva March Tappan, illus. — A 
Short History of England's and America's Literature, by 
Eva March Tappan, illus. — Riverside Literature Series, 
new vols.: Shakespeare's Henry V., edited by Edward 
Everett Hale, Jr., Ph.D.; DeQulncey's Joan of Arc and 
The English Mail Coach, edited by Miss R. Adelaide 
Witham; each 15 cts. (Houghton, Mifflin & Co.) 

Longmans' English Classics, new vol.: De Quincey's Joan 
of Arc and The English Mail Coach, edited by Charles 
Sears Baldwin, Ph.D., 40 cts. — A Preliminary Course in 
Differential and Integral Calculus, by A. H. Angus, B.S. 
(Longmans, Green, & Co.) 

niSCEIiliAlTEOXJS. 

American Sportsman's Library, edited by Caspar Whitney, 
new vols. : Baseball and Football, by John Ward and 
Ralph D. Paine; Skating, lee-Yachting, and Skate-Sail- 
ing, by Archibald Rogers and Daniel C. Beard; each 
illus., %2. net. — Elizabeth and her German Garden, new 
edition, illus. in color. — The British Navy, painted by 
Xorman Wilkinson, described by H. Laurence Swin- 
burne, illus. in color. — The Statesman's Year-Book, 1906. 
(Macmillan Co.) 

Practical Rifle Shooting, by Walter Winans. — Elocution, 
its first principles, by W. H. Breare. — Health and the 
Inner Life, by Horatio W. Dresser. — Everyday Luncheons, 
by Olive Green, 90 cts.— Burke's Peerage and Baronetage, 
a genealogical and heraldic dictionary of the peerage 
and baronetage, by Sir Bernard Burke, edited by Ash- 
worth P. Burke, S8th edition, revised and brought up to 
date, %12. net. (G. P. Putnam's Sons.) 

In Vanity Fair, a tale of frocks and femininity, by Eleanor 
Hoyt Brainerd, illus., $1.50 net. — Books and my Food, 
literary quotations and original recipes for every day in 
the year, by Elisabeth Luther Cary and Annie M. Jones, 
n. net. (Moffat, Yard & Co.) 

Plastering, plain and decorative, by William Millar, with 
introductory chapter by G. T. Robinson, F.S.A., illus., 
$7.50 net.— Illusions, by Mabel Collins, 60 cts. net.— The 
Path to the Masters of Wisdom, 50 cts. net.— The Voice 
of Silence, by H. P. Blavatsky, 50 cts. — Gems of the 
East, by H. P. Blavatsky, $1. net. — Occult Essays, A. P. 
Sinnett, $1. net. — Occult Chemistry, by Annie Besant, 
20 cts. (John Lane Co.) 

Progress in the Household, by Lucy M. Salmon. — Proceed- 
ings of the Congress of Arts and Sciences at St. Louis, 
Vols. I., II., and III., each $2.50 net. (Houghton, Mifflin 
& Co.) 

String Figures, cat's-cradle in many lands, by Caroline 
Fumess Jayne, with an ethnological introduction by Al- 
fred C. Haddon, M.A., illus., $5. net. (Charles Scrib- 
ner's Sons.) 

The Book of Tea, by Okakura-Kakuzo, $1.50. (Fox, Duf- 
field & Co.) 

International Law, a treatise, by L. Oppenheim, LL.D., 
2 vols., each $6.50 net. (Longmans, Green, & Co.) 

The International Cook Book, by Alexander Filippml, il- 
lus., $4.80 net. (Doubleday, Page & Co.) 

The Up-to-Date Waitress, by Janet Mackenzie Hill, illus., 
$1.50 net. — I»ractical Rowing with Scull and Sweep, by 
Arthur W. Stevens and Eugene A. Darling, M.D., illus., 
$1. net— The Game of Bridge, by Fisher Ames, $1. net. 
(Little, Brown, & Co.) 

Famous Old Receipts, compiled by Mrs. W. Hinckle 
Smith and Mrs. James T. Halsey, $2. net. — The Woman's 
Book, by M. Solis-Cohen, $2. net.— The Rubaiyat of the 
Egg, by Clare Victor Dwiggins. illus., 25 cts. — The 
Skull Toast Book, compiled by Clare Victor Dwiggins, 
illus., 60 cts. (John C. Winston Co.) 

The Parliamentarian, a manual of parliamentary pro- 
cedure, extemporaneous speaking, and informal debate, 
by Cora Welles Trow, '75 cts. (A. Wessels Co.) 

How to be Beautiful, by Clara E. Laughlin, illus., $1.25 net. 
— The Complete Hostess, by Clara E. Laughlin, illus., 
$1.K net. (D. Appleton & Co.) 

Automobile Dictionary, by Sigmund Krausz, $2. net. — The 
Foolish Etiquette, by Gideon Wurdz, illus. (Frederick 
A. Stokes Co.) 

The Building of a Book, edited by Frederick H. Hitch- 
cock, $1.50 net. (The Grafton Press.) 

Problems of Babyhood, by Dr. George Wells Fitz and 
Rachel Kent Fitz, illus., $1.25 net. (Henry Holt & Co.) 

Foster's Complete Bridge, by R. F. Foster, illus., $1.50 net 
(McClure, Phillips & Co.) 

The Gospel of Love, an Easter gift-book, $1. (The Nunc 
Licet Press.) 

Success in Letter- Writing, business and social, by Sherwin 

Cody, $1. net. (A. C. McClurg & Co.) 
A Common Sense Hell, by Arthur Richard Rose. $L net 

(G. W. Dillingham Co.) 
The Standard Webster Pocket Dictionary, special desk 
and school edition, with maps, 35 cts. (Laird & Lee.) 



List of Xeat Books. 



[The following list, containing 66 tides, includes books 
received by Thk Dial since its last issueJ] 

BI0aSAPH7 AKB B£lIINISCrENC£S. 
I<ord Bandolph Cliarchlll. By Winston Spencer Chordiill 

M.P. In 2 vols., illus. in photogravure, etc. large 8vo, gilt 

top, oncat Macmillan Co. (9. net. 
The Story of Ky life. By Father George Gapon. HIus.. 

large 8vo, pp. 261. E. P. Dutton Si Ck). $3. net. 
Kary Stuart. ByFlorence A. MacCunn. nius. in photogrravure, 

etc, large 8vo, pp. 318. E. P. Dutton & Co. $3. net 
Theodor Leschetizky. By Annette Hollah. nius.. 12nK>, gilt 

top, uncut, pp. 85. " Living Masters of Music." John Lane 

Co. $1. net 
The World's Anatomists. ByG.W.H. Kemper. M.D. Dlus.. 

24mo, pp. 79. P. Blakiston's Son & Co. Paper, 50 cts. 

HISTORY. 

The History of £n?land, from the Earliest Times to the Nor- 
man Conquest. By Thomas Hod^kin. D.C.L. Large 8vo, 
pp. 528. Lon^rmans, Green, & Co. 12.60 net. 

The Army of the Potomac, from 1861 to 1863. By Samuel Lir- 
ingston French. With portraits, large 8vo. pp. 375. Publish- 
ing Society of New York. 

The Real Triumph of Japan : The Conquest of the Silent 
Foe. By Louis Livingston Seaman, LL.D. Illus., 12mo, 
pp. 291. D. Appleton & Ck). $1.50 net. 

GEKSBAIi LITEBATXTRB. 
The Iietters of Richard Ford. 1797-1858. Edited by Rowland 

E. Prothero, M.V.O. Illus. in photogravure, etc. large 8vo. 

gilt top, uncut, pp. 235. E. P. Dutton & Co. $3.50 net. 
The Writingrs of Samuel Adams. Compiled and edited by 

Harry Alonzo Cushing. Vol. H., 1770-1773. Large 8vo, gilt 

top, uncut, pp. 454. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $5. net. 
The Climbers : A Play in Four Acts. By Clyde Fitch. 16mo, 

gilt top, pp. 265. Macmillan Co. 75 cts. 
A Premature Socialist. By Mary Ives Todd. With frontis- 
piece. 12mo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 118. Broadway Publishing 

Ck). $1. 

BOOKS OF -VTERSR. 
PearL Rendered into modem English verse by S. Weir Mitchell, 

M.D. 12mo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 57. Century (3o. 
A Realist of the .Sg'ean : Being a verse-translation of the 

Mimes of Herodas. By Hugo Sliarpley, M.A. 16mo, gilt top, 

pp. 57. London : David Nutt. 
The Three Resurrections and The Triumph of Maeve. By 

Eva Gore-Booth. With photogravure frontispiece, 12mo, 

pp. 288. Longmans. Green, & Co. $2. net. 
White Poppies. By larfhlaith. 16mo,gilt top, pp. 190. Oxford: 

B. H. BlackweU, 

FICTION. 
The Shadow of Life. By Anne Douglas Sedgwick. 12mo, 

pp. 330. Century Co. $1.50. 
Judith : A Story of the Candle-Lit Fifties. By Grace Alexander. 

nius., 12mo. pp. 431. Bobbs-Merrill Co. $1.50. 
Fishers of Men. By S. R. Crockett. Illus., l2mo, pp. 416. 

D. Appleton & Co. $1.50. 
The Challenge. By Warren Cheney. Dins., 12mo, pp. 386. 

Bobbs-Merrill Co. $1.50. 
The Truth about Tolna. By Bertha Runkle. With frontis- 
piece in color, 12mo, pp. 359. Century Co. $1.50. 
The Sea-Maid. By Ronald Macdonald. 12mo, pp. 328. Heniy 

Holt & Co. $1.50. 
Hazel of Heatherland. By Mabel Barnes-Grundy. 12mo, 

pp. 389. Baker & Taylor Co. $1.50. 
Marcelle the Mad. By Seth Cook Comstock. 12mo, pp. 339. 

D. Appleton & Co. <a.50. 
The Girl in Waiting. By Archibald Eyre. With frontispiece. 

12mo, pp. 325. John W. Luce & Co. $1.50. 
Calmire : Man and Nature. By Henry Holt. Sixth edition, 

revised; 12mo, pp. 705. Houghton, Mifflin & Co. $1.50. 
Sturmsee : Man and Man. By Henry Holt. Third edition, 

revised ; 12mo, pp. 599. Houghton, Mifflin & Co. $1.50. 
The Nonchalante. By Stanley Olmsted. 12mo. pp. 247. Henry 

Holt & Co. $1.25. 
The Corsican Lovers : A Story of the Vendetta. By Charles 

Felton Pidgin. Illus., 12mo, pp. 345. B. W. Dodge & Co. $1.50. 



212 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



Worshippers. By Henry Berman. 12mo, gilt top, uncut, 
pp. 272. Grafton Press. $1.50. 

Umbrellas to Hend. By Margaret Vandergrift. 12mo, pp. 176. 
The Gorham Press. $1.50. 

As It May Be : A Story of the Future. By Bessie Story Rogers. 
12mo, pp. 83. The Gorham Press. $1. net. 

A liife Sentence ; or. Duty in Dealing with Crime. By W. 
Watson Burgess. 12mo, pp. 210. The Gorham Press. $1.50. 

The WMtest Man. By Carrie J. Makepeace. 12mo, pp. 195. 
The Gorham Press. $1.50. 

The Doverfields' Diamonds. By E. M. Van Deventer ("Law- 
rence L. Lynch"). Illus., 12mo, pp.359. Laird & Lee. 75cts. 

BELIQION. 
A Qood Shepherd, and Other Sermons. By William Beed 

Huntington, D.D. 12mo, pp. 296. Thomas Whittaker. 

$1.25 net. 
The Twentieth Century Christ. By Paul Karishka. 12mo, 

gilt top, pp. 204. Lothrop, Lee & Shepard Co. $1. net. 

ECONOMICS AND SOCIOLOGY. 
Studies In American Trade Unionism. Edited by Jacob 

H. Hollander, Ph.D., and George E. Bamett, Ph.D. Large 

8vo, uncut, pp. 380. Henry Holt & Co. $2.75 net. 
The Negro and the Nation : A History of American Slavery 

and Enfranchisement. By George S. Merriam. 8vo, uncut, 

pp. 436. Henry Holt & Co. $1.75 net. 
Labour Legislation, Labour Movements, and Labour 

Leaders. By George Howell, F.S.8. Second edition ; in 2 

vols., with portrait, 8vo, uncut. E. P. Dutton & Co. $2.50 net. 
The Bitter Cry of the Children. By John Spargo; with 

introduction by Robert Hunter. Illus., 12mo, pp. 337. Mac- 

millan Co. $1.50 net. 
Immigration, and its Effects upon the United States. By 

Prescott F. Hall, A.B. 12mo, pp. 393. " American Public 

Problems." Henry Holt & Co. $1.50 net. 
Future Forest Trees ; or. The Importance of the German 

Experiments in the Introduction of North American Trees. 

By A. Harold Unwin. 8vo, pp. 108. A. Wessels Co. $2.25 net. 
The Subjection of Women. By John Stuart Mill. New 

edition ; edited by Stanton Coit, Ph.D. 12mo, pp. 128. Long- 
mans, Green, & Co. 40 cts. net. 

ABT, 

Old Tlme'WaU Papers. By Kate Sanborn. Illus. in color, 
etc., large 4to, pp. 200. Greenwich, Conn.: Literary Col- 
lector Press. $5. net. 

Landscape Painting 'and Modem Dutch Artists. By 
B, B. Greenshields. Illus., large 8vo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 229. 
Baker & Taylor Co. $2. net. 

Fraf Angelloo. Text by EdgcumbelStaley.^ Illus. in photogra- 
vure, etc., large 8vo. "Newnes' Art3Library."t» Fr ederick 
Wame&Co. $1.25. '~ZIIZZ. 

A IDlctlonary''of Artists and' Art' Terms.T 'By Albert M. 
Hyamson. 32mo, pp.178. E. P. Dutton & Co. Leather, 50 cts 

BOOKS FOB THE YOUNG. 
The Girls of Gardenvllle. By CarroU Watson Rankin. 

Illus., 12mo, pp. 317. Henry Holt & Co. $1.50. 
Under Togro for Japan ; or, Three Young Americans on Land 

and Sea. By Edward Stratemeyer. Illus., 12mo, pp. 309. 

Lothrop, Lee & Shepard Co. $1.25. 
The Larky Furnace, and Other Adventures of Sue Betty. 

By Hildegard Brooks. Illus., 12mo, pp. 202. Henry Holt & 

Co. $1.25. 

EDUCATION. 
The Principles of Teaching Based on Psychology. By Edward 

L. Thorndike. 12mo, pp. 293. New York : A. G. SeUer. 
A Handbook of Literary Criticism : An Analysis of Literary 

Forms in Prose and Verse. By William Henry Sheran. 8vo, 

pp. 578. Hinds, Noble & Eldredge. 
Language, Grammar, and Composition. By W. F. Webster 

and Alice Woodworth Cooley. Illus., 12mo, pp. 385. Hough- 
ton, Mifflin & Co. 60 cts. 
Language Lessons from Literature. By Alice Woodworth 

Cooley and W. F. Webster. Illus., 12mo, pp. 270. Houghton, 

Mifflin & Co. 45 cts. 
American History In Literature. Compiled by Martha 

A. L. Lane and Mabel Hill. Illus., 12mo, pp. 178. Ginn & 

Co. 55 cts. 
Standard English Classics. New vols. : De Quincey's English 

Mail-Coach and Joan of Arc, edited by Milton Haight Turk, 

Ph.D. ; Ruskin's Sesame and Lilies, edited by Mrs. Lois G. 

Hufford. 16mo. Ginn & Co. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 
Future Life in the Light of Ancient Wisdom and Modern 

Science. By Louis Elb6. Authorized translation from the 

French. With portrait, 12mo, pp. 382. A. C. McClurg & Co. 

$1.20 net. 
Mental and Moral Heredity In Boyalty : A Statistical 

Study in History and Psychology. By Frederick Adams 

Woods, M.D. With portraits, large 8vo, gilt top, uncut. 

pp. 312. Henry Holt & Co. $3. net. 
Nature and Health. By Edward Curtis, A.M. 12mo. pp. 313. 

Henry Holt & Co. $1.25 net. 
The Complete Hostess. Edited by Clara E. Laughlin. Illus.. 

12mo, pp. 321. D. Appleton & Co. $1.25 net. 
President's Beport of the University of Chicago, July, 1904- 

July, 1905. 4to, pp. 203. University of Chicago Press. 
The Standard Webster Pocket Dictionary. Compiled by 

Alfred B. Chambers, A.M. Illus., 32mo, gilt edges, pp. 208. 

Laird & Lee. Leather, 35 cts. 
On and Off the Bread Wagon. By Charles Dryden. Illus., 

12mo, pp. 266. Reilly & Britton Co. Paper, 25 cts. 
Brainy Bowers and Drowsy Duggan. 12mo, pp. 155. Reilly 

& Britton Co. Cloth, 50 cts. ; paper, 25 cts. 

ROOK'S ^^^ OUT-OP>PRiNT BOOKS SUPPLIED. 
■-'^-"-'*^*^» no matter on what subject. Write us. We can get 
you any book ever published. Please state wants. Catalogue free. 
BAKER'S GREAT BOOK-SHOP, 14-16 Bright St., Bikmimobam, Eng. 



BO OK I 



Engraved on Copper, Steel, or Wood 

Antique or Modern Designs. 
Heraldry a Specialty. 

Crests and Coats op Arms. 

ROBERT SNEIDER COMPANY 

143-145 Fulton Street NEW YORK. 

"Here is far the most satisfactory to a judicial mind of the many 
critiques upon this subject." — Tht Outlook. 

The Truth in Christian Science 

And Its Errors. A Lecture before The College Club, at Boston, Mass. 

By HERBERT ERNEST CUSHMAN, Ph.D., Professor of Philosophy 

in Tufts College. Cloth, gilt top, 60 cents. 

" It is cause for gratification that a scholar has thought it worth his 
while to treat of this subject in a manly fashion. We could wish that 
all who give the subject serious thought, either as devotees or as critics, 
would take the time to read this sane view." — Journal oj Education. 
JAMES H. WEST CO. PUBLISHERS BOSTON 

STORY-WRITERS, Biographers, Historians, Poets — Do 

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^-^— you desire the honest criticism of your 
book, or its skilled revision and correction, or advice as to publication 7 
Such work, said Gkorge William Curtis, is "done as it should be by The 
Easy Chair's friend and fellow laborer in letters, Dr. Titus M. Coan." 
Terms by agreement. Send for circular D, or forward your book or MS. 
to the New York Bureau of Revision, 70 Fifth Ave., New York. 



WORK IN A LIBRARY 

Its pleasures and duties : How and what 
to study for it. Read Public Libraries, 
a practical journal, monthly. $1. a year. 
Sample copy sent free. 

PUBLIC LIBRARIES 

156 Wabash Avenue CHICAGO 



WILLIAM R.JENKINS 

851 and 853 Sixth Avenue (cor. 48tta Street) New York 

No braneh stores 



FRENCH 

and other 
foreign 

BOOKS 



ROMANS CHOISIS SERIES 

26 Titles. Paper 60c., cloth 85c. vol. 

CONTES CHOISIS SERIES 

24 Titles. Paper 25c. , cloth 40c. vol. 
Masterpieces, pure, by well-known authors. 
Read extensively by classes ; notes in English. 
List, also catalogue of all publications and 
imported books, on application. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



213 



A - 1 1 Fifteenth Year. Candid, suggestive 

M 1 1 tn A KA CriticUm, literary and technical Re- 

MllinnrX vision, Advice. Disposal. MSS.ofall 

fVUIIIUIW kinds. Instruction. Refebekces: 

f M Mrs. Burton Harrison. W. D. Howells, 

L^ ^fr\f\n\l 3>Irs. Julia Ward Howe. Thoma.s 

f^M V K 1 1 1 I V ^'elson Page, Mrs. Mary E. Wilkins 

A ^^WUIIw f Freeman, and others. Send stamp 

■ \3 S for Booklet to WM. A. DRESSER. 

Mention The Dial. R. 7, 400 Broadway, Cambridse, Mass. 




A BEAUTIFUL BOOK FOR 
EASTER 

Cl)e (15o0pel of ILotje 

In artistic cloth cover (blue) with 

symbolic design in white and gold. 

Price $i.oo postpaid. 

TO BE READY BY APRIL 1 


STUDY AND PRACTICE OF FRENCH in 4 Parts 

L. C. BOKAXK, Author and Pub., 1930 Chestnut St., Philadelphia, Pa. 

Well-graded aeries for Preparatory Schools and Colleges. No tone 
wasted in superficial or mechanical work. French Trxt : Numerous 
•xerdaea in conrersatioii, translation, composition. Pari I. (60 eta.): 
Primary grade; thorough drill in Pronunciation. Part IT. (90 eta.): 
[ntermedlate grade ; Essentials of Grammar ; 4tb edition, rerised, with 
Vocabulary : most carefully graded. Part III. ($1.00): Composition, 
Idioms, Syntax ; meets requirements for admission to college. 

Pari IV. (35 cts.): Handbook of Pronunciation for adranced grade; 
concise and comprehensiTe. Sent to teacher* /or examitiaiion, with a 


THE NUNC LICET PRESS 

42 W. Coulter St., PHILADELPHIA, PA. 


1^'An unutuai book, iehich from itt imique valtia hot iMw it* w^ 
to immediate recojptition. 






TheSTUDEBAKER 

iftnt Sitt0 Sutlding 

Michigan Boalevard, between Congress and 
Van Boren Streets, Chicago. 


1 Importing Notice 

1 AX/Ebegtoannooneethat we have greatly extended 

' '' our facilities for the importation of English 

books, so tliat we now are equipped to fill orders of 

i this sort with the greatest efBciency and intelligence. 

Promptness, good service, and low prices will role 

in this department, as they do in all onr business. 


mrVRT W. SAVAGE OFFERS 


The College Widow 

QEORQE ADE'S RECORD COMEDY 


THE BAKER & TAYLOR CO., WhoUsaU BookxMert 
33-37 East 17tta St.. Union Sq. North. New York 










OOOK publishers and book journals are 
^ alike sustained by a book public. The 
people who read book journals are the ones 
who buy books. Daily papers and miscel- 
laneous journals have miscellaneous read- 
ers, some of whom are bookish people. All 
the readers of a book journal are bookish 
people. The Dlax is preminently a book 
journal, published solely in the interests 
of the book class, — the literary and culti- 
vated class. 


THE BOOKS 
OF ALL PUBLISHERS 

are carried in our stock, 
which is larger and more 
general than that of any 
other house in the country. 

LIBRARY ORDERS 

given prompt and intelligent 
service. Our large stock 
and extensive library expe- 
rience enables us to give 
valuable aid and advice to 
libraries and librarians. 

CATALOGUE CARDS and 
CARD CABINETS 

We carry a special line and 
will be glad to furnish a 
price list. 

LIBRARY DEPARTMENT 

A. C. McCLURG & CO. 

CHICAGO 


T^HE DTAT. is more generally consulted 
^ and depended upon by Librariaxs in 
making up orders for books than any 
other American critical journal; it circu- 
lates more widely among retaxl book- 
sellers than any other journal of its class ; ' 
it is the accustomed literary guide and aid 
of thousands of private book-buyers, 
covering every section of the country. 



214 



THE DIAL 



[March 16, 



SaMiPisaBSa 

TTPEWRITER8 
appeal to your sense and your senses 

They have the light touch which maliea 

for speed and attractive writins. 

Thb Smith Premier Typewkitbb Co. 

SyracuBe, N. Y. 

Branch Stores Everywhere 



20 E. Van Buren Street 
CHICAGO 



THREE FAST 

California Trains 

daily via the Chicago, Union Pacific & 
North-Western Line, over the only double 
track railway between Chicag-o and the 
Missouri River. 

The Overland Limited 

Fast through electric-lighted train to 
San Francisco and Portland. Most 
luxurious train in the world. Less than 
three days en route. 

Los Angeles Limited 

Electric-lighted through train arriving 
at Los Angeles afternoon of the third 
day, via the new Salt Lake Route. 
Entire new equipment. Drawing-Room 
and Tourist Sleeping cars, Composite- 
Observation cars. Dining cars. 

The China ft Japan Fast Mall 

To San Francisco, Los Angeles and 
Portland without change. Pullman 

Drawing-Room and Tourist 
Sleeping cars. Dining cars. 

For booklets, maps, schedules' 
rates, list of hotels, and descrip- 
tion of limited trains apply at 

TICKET OFFICES! 
2 1 2 Clark St. and Walls SI. Sta. 

(Tel. Central 721.) 




Next Summer's Vacation 



Plan now on seeing Yellowstone Park, "Wonderland of the World." The finest coaching 
trip in America. The greatest of Nature's wonderful phenomena on every hand. 
Geysers, mud pools, tinted terraces, magnificent mountains, and bracing and invigorating 
mountain air. The best of hotels and accommodations. Write for "Wonderland 1906," 
six cents. It tells about the Great Northwest and Yellowstone Park. 

Go via GARDINER GATEWAY, the Official Entrance, 

AND THE 

Northern Pacific Railway 

St. Paul and Minneapolis to the Pacific Northwest 



Write for particulars to 

C. A. MATTHEWS 

General Passenger Agent 

208 So. Clark St. 

Chicago, 111. 





1906.] 



THE DIAL 



216 



NELSON'S New Century Library 

IS BECOMING MORE POPULAR EVERY YEAR 

The works of the best authors have never been obtainable in a form so elegant. 
New style ^^J Large novels formerly requiring two bulky 

volumes are issued in one handsome book, 
not thicker than a monthly magazine and 
of pocket size — 654x4% inches, yet the 
size of the type is not reduced. 




Type same Size in 
Both 



WE HAVE JUST ADDED 




SHAKESPEARE'S WORKS 

Complete in Six Volumes. Boand in red cloth and red limp leather, gilt top and gilt back, with frontispiece. 
Without doubt the daintiest set of Shakespeare on the market. The type is long primer bold face. You have to 
examine these volumes to appreciate their merits. 

The new Century Library contains tlie complete works of 

Dickens, Thackeray, Scott, The Brontes, Jane Austen 

and selected works of Lever, Lytton, Kingsley, Bunyan, Burns, Carlyle, etc. The size is so 
convenient that you can hold them in the hand when reading and carry them in your pocket or satchel to read on 
the train, and a volume is so small and light that you never know it is there. 

Prices — $1.00, $1.25, $1.50 — according to the style of binding. 



New volumes are constantly being added. Complete catalogue sent on application to 

THOMAS NELSON & SONS, Publishers, 37 East 18th Street, New York 









FOLLY 

By Edith Rickert, author of "The Reaper." With 
frontispiece in color by Sigismond de Ivanowski. tl.50. 

HAZEL OF 
HEATHERLAND 

By Mabex Babnes-Qbundy. $1.50. 

LANDSCAPE PAINTING 

AND MODERN DUTCH ARTISTS j 

■ By E. B. Greenshields. Xet $2.00. By mail $2.10. | 

THE COUNTRY TOWN 

By WiLBERT L. Anderson. Net $1.00. By mail $1.10. 

SOCIAL PROGRESS 1906 

Edited by Josiah Strong. Net $1.00. By mail $1.10. 


BOOKS DISCUSSED AND BOOKS SIQNIFICANT 


r*lll«icfl£iri Published March 10th. 
Wliriolldll $1.75 net, postage 12 cents. 

OriSrinS By otto PFLEIDERER, D.D.. Professor 

^ of Theology at the University of Berlin. 

Translated by Daniel A. Huebsch, Ph.D. 

A popularly written treatise, from the historical viewiKjint, on 

the origins and development of Christianity and the Church. 




BOOKS DISCUSSED AND BOOKS SIQNIFiCANT 




■ •« D/>t*S1 "^^^^ published. 
li* I^Cl 11 fi.50 net. postage 12 cents. 

nf Ch&nfirC Ei>*av»WritteninTimeofTranquiUitv. 
* By C. F. G. MASTERMAN. M.P., 
Literary Editor London Daily Xew». 
A trenchant survey of present^ay Anglo-Saxon civilization, 
illuminating the forces making for radical change. Brilliant 
criticisms of men and books, an examination of the newer 
tendencies in thought, studies of contemporary society and 
current religious influences. 




BOOKS DISCUSSED AND BOOKS SiONIFlCANT | 




1ilKf\f€k\ Third Edition. 
ITlUrctl $2.00 net, postage 12 cents. 

EdUCd-tlOn By EDWARD HOWARD GRIGGS 

A discussion of the whole problem of moral education : its aim 
m relation to our society and all the means through which that 
aim can be attained. " It is easily the best book of its kind yet 
written in America." — The Literary Digest. 


THE BAKER & TAYLOR COMPANY 

ii'i" ^^^^ Seventeeittb Street, Nev York 




B. W. Huebsch, Publisher, New York 



216 THE DIAL [Mai-ch 16, 1906. 
f \ 

APPLETONS' SPRING NOVELS 



THE FALSE GODS 

By GEORGE HORACE LORIMER 

Author of "Letters from a Self-made >Jerchant to his Son." Illustrated. 12mo. 

Ornamental Cloth, $1.25. 

The adventures of a newspaper man in the inner sanctum of an Egyptologist. 

A TRACER OF LOST PERSONS 

By ROBERT W. CHAMBERS 

Author of " lole," etc. Illustrated. 12mo. Ornamental Cloth, $1.50. 
A humorous story of how a clubman got a wife by looking for an ideal. 

THE LAKE 

By GEORGE MOORE 

Author of "Evelyn Innes." 12mo. Ornamental Cloth, $1.50. 

The intensely vivid, human soul story of an Irish priest awakened from 

a lethargic existence by a girl. 

THE GREAT REFUSAL 

By MAXWELL GRAY 

Author of "The Silence of Dean Maitland." 12mo. Ornamental Cloth, $1.50. 
A story of modern business plutocracy interwoven with a wonderful love story. 

WILD JUSTICE 

By LLOYD OSBOURNE 

Author of " Baby Bullet." Illustrated, 12mo. Ornamental Cloth, $1.50 

These stories have all the dreamy, delicious, restful feeling of the most 

delightful climate of the world. 

A LADY IN WAITING 

By CHARLES WOODCOCK SAVAGE 

Frontispiece. 12mo. Ornamental Cloth, $1.50. 

The diary of a little French aristocrat, in which she tells all about her love affairs. 



U. APPLETON & CO. PUBLISHERS NEW YORK 

v^ 

THE DIAL PRESS, FDvE ARTS BUILDINO, CHICAOO 



THE 




o4 SEMI-MONTHLY JOURNAL OF 

^toarg- Critinsm, gismssioit, anb information. 



Edited by 
FRANCIS F. BROWNE 



Volume XL. 
Ko. 475. 



CHICAGO, APRIL 1, 1906. 



10 ct*. a copy, f 



$2. a year. 



Fine Abts Boildinq 
203 Michi^ran Blvd. 



BOOKS READY MARCH THIRTY-FIRST 



LINCOLN: MASTER OF MEN 

By Alonzo Rothschtld 
In restricting his treatment to one aspect of Lincoln's greatness, — his mastery over 
men, — Mr. Rothschild has opened up a field of biography which is distinctly novel. 
The eight chapters take Up successively Lincoln's physical, intellectual, and early 
political prowess in his relations with Douglas, Seward, Chase, Stanton, Fremont, 
and McClellan. They may be read either independently or consecutively, and 
taken as a whole afford a most entertaining and instructive account of Lincoln's 
life. With notes, bibliography, and 8 portraits. $3.00, net. Postpaid, $3.17. 




BIRD AND BOUGH 

By John Burroughs 
Lovers of nature who are also lovers of poetry will find 
this a most delightful and companionable volume. It 
is the first collected edition of Mr. Burroughs's poems 
of nature. $1.00, net. Postpaid, $1.07. 



CATTLE BRANDS 

By Andy Adams 
Cowboy yams of man to man difficulties; of queer 
characters; the adventures of the cowboy in the field 
of politics ; the capture of outlaws by rangers ; — by 
the author of " The Log of a Cowboy," etc. $1.50. 



MEMORIES OF A GREAT SCHOOLMASTER 

By James P. Conoveb 
This volume contains interesting personal reminiscences of Dr. Henry A. Coit, rector for nearly forty years of St. 
Paul's School at Concord, N. H. During his administration the school grew to be one of the largest and best 
known private schools in the country. The book opens with a biog^phical intro- 
duction, and there foUow chapters on the School Eoom, the Doctor's Study, the 
Chapel, etc., and an appendix, with various addresses, papers, and letters. With 
photogravure portrait and other illustrations. $1.50, net. Postpaid, $1.61. 

THE EVASION 

By Eugenia Brooks Frothingham 
Komance and reform — a point of honor weakly evaded and quixotically regarded, 
one phase of society life of to-day and the bitter problems of socialism — are 

brought face to face in this brilliant and engrossing novel, which is fuU of keen " gladys uk^wKENCB ' 

feeling and dramatic feeling. By the author of "The Turn of the Road." $1.50. from "The Evasion. 




HOUGHTON, MIFFLIN & COMPANY, BOSTON AND NEW YORK 



218 



THE DIAL 



[April 1, 



Pearl 



Rendered into Modern 
English Verse by 

DR. S. WEIR MITCHELL 

THIS earliest, and not the 
least pathetic of English 
elegiac poems, has been 
rescued by Dr. Weir Mitchell 
from the West Midland dia- 
lect of an unknown man, in 
the Fourteenth Century, and 
rendered into rhymed verse, 
with the affectionate care of a 
poet. It is difficult to say too 
much of the tenderness, the 
simplicity, and the faith, of 
this poem. It is surely the 
gift of a personal sorrow to 
those who sorrow in after 
years. The lover of verse, the 
the mourner, and the scholar 
alike will be glad of this little 
book. $1.00 net. 

The Century Co. 



CHICAGO ARTISTS 

Reproductions of some of the Notable Works at the recent 
Exhibition. 

SKETCHING 

Advice to students by Alfred East, A.R.A., with color 
and half-tone reproductions of his work. 

GUTZOM BORGLUM 

Painter and Sculptor. By Leila Mechlin, with 15 illustra- 
tions, including full-page Tinted Insert of the MARES OP 
DIOMEDES just bought by the Metropolitan Museum of 



Art. 



ROTHSCHILD 



The Ten Million Enterprise to House the Artizans of 
Paris undertaken by the Rothschilds and carried out by 
the Architect Augustine Rey. With a score of plans and 
elevations described by Henri Frantz. 

PASTE LLISTS 

The French master, L. Levy-Dhurmer, with reproduc- 
tions, including a Tinted Insert. 

INTERNATIONAL 

STUDIO 

APRIL 

$o Color Tlaies Yearly 
Suitable for Framing 

SOLD EVERYWHERE 





CARUSO 

Drawn by Himself 

CARUSO'S Book 

A collection of nearly 200 caricatures drawn by 
Enrico Caruso, the famous tenor, of himself and the 
other members of the Metropolitan Opera Com- 
pany, and even the employees of the Opera House. 
Every caricature is colored by hand, and each book 
is autographed by Caruso. The volume has the 
appearance of a sketch-book de luxe filled with 
original drawings. For further information address 

ROBERT GRIER COOKE, INC. 

307 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK. 



An Important New Book on the Bible 
THE EVOLUTION OF A GREAT LITERATURE 

Natural History of the Jewish and Christian Scriptures. By NEWTON 

MANN. One vol., 5x8 inches, 381 pp., $1.50 net, postage 15 cents. 

[Synopses of Chapters will be sent on request.] 

" This book by Newton Mann should be read as fearlessly as it has 

been written. Truth is the only thing that will really save the world. 

The entire biblical literature comes under review and is always treated 

fairly. A work remarkable for its clearness and candor. All religious 

bodies must move up to its position. The coming generation should 

be taught what the Bible really is." — From a column review in the 

Boston Transcript. 

JAMES H. WEST CO. : PUBLISHERS : BOSTON 

FRANKLIN'S BOYHOOD 

From the Autobiography ; Franklin's letters on War and 
Peace and his Plan for Western Colonies are just added 
to the Old South Leaflets, Nos. 161-163. 

No. 9, The Plan of Union, 1754, is another Franklin 
leaflet. 

Price, 5 cents a copy. 

Send for complete listt. 



DIRECTORS OF OLD SOUTH WORK 

Old South Meeting Houie 
WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON 



A BEAUTIFUL BOOK FOR 
EASTE R 

C|)e dgpgpel of JLotoe 

In artistic cloth cover (blue) with 

symbolic design in white and gold. 

Price $i.oo postpaid. 

THE NUNC LICET PRESS 

42 W. Coulter St., PHILADELPHIA, PA. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



219 



SOME IMPORTANT SPRING BOOKS 



Oy THE CANAL AND THE PAN- AMERICAN MOVEMENT 

Panama to Patagonia 

The Isthmian Csmal and the West Coast Countries of South America. By Charles M. Pepper, author of 
" To-Morrow in Cuba." With new maps and numerous illustrations. Large 8vo, 82.50 net. 
The author is a distiniraiBhed newspaper man who has travelled extensive!;, especially in the Latin- American republics, and 
who is a member of the Permanent Pan-American RaUway Committee. His book aims to point out to the American commercial 
world the enormous advantages coming to this covmtry from South America through the construction of the Panama Canal. 

ROMANTIC HISTORY IN THE SOUTHWEST 



The Glory Seekers 



The Romance of Would-Be Founders of Empire in the Early Days of the Southwest. By Whxiam Horace 

Browx. Illustrated. Square 8vo, 81.50 net. 
These are tales of the daring adventurers who became notorious as the leaders of filibustering expeditions into the reerion 
which now forms the State of Texas. The author, William Horace Brown, knows his subject and endeavors to present a truthful 
account, with the statement that "justice and patriotism were not always the prompters of their actions." There is no question 
but that their exploits were dramatic and picturesque, and the narrative of them is not only instructive, but makes highly enter- 
taining reading. 



TRAVEL NOTES OF SIXTY YEARS AGO 

Hawaiian Yesterdays 

By Dr. Henry M. Lymax. With nimierous illustra- 
tions from photographs. Large 8vo, 82.00 net. 
A delightfully written account of what a boy saw of life in the 
Islands in the early "40's. The author was a distinguished Chi- 
cago physician, whose father was a well-known missionary in 
Hawaii. His book is a most pertinent description of early con- 
ditions in a part of the world in which Americans are becoming 
more and more interested. 



FOR MUSIC LOVERS AND STUDENTS 

Remenyi, Musician and Man 

An Appreciation. By Gwendolyn Kelley and George 
P. Upton. With portraits. 8vo, 81.75 net. 
Miss KeUey was an intimate friend and devoted admirer of 
the famous Hungarian wizard of the violin, and he entrusted to 
her a number of biographical documents. To these have been 
added others contributed at her solicitation by bis personal 
friends and members of his family, also some of his character- 
istic letters and literary sketches, the whole forming a volume 
of uncommon charm and a valuable work of reference. 



ONE OF THE VITAL BOOKS OF THE YEAR 

Future Life 

In the Light of Ancient Wisdom and Modem Science. By Lons ElbJ^. With a portrait. 12mo, 81.20 net. 
This is the authorized translation of the famous book which has been creating so wide a stir in scientific and religious circles 
throughout France, under the title " La Vie Future." It will be received with widespread interest here, and will arouse very general 
discussion. The subject is one which is engaging not only scientists, but laymen, in ever-increasing numbers. This volume offers 
for the first time a complete presentation of all the available evidence hitherto to be found only in the most scattered and inac- 
cessible forms. 

"This is a book which every intelligent man should read,- for no matter what his convictions are on the subject, he will 
probably change them in many resi)ects after perusing it. . . . The book is remarkable for its candor, for lucidity of statement, 
logic of argument, and the manifest determination of the author to get only at<he truth. The translation is excellait." 

— Philadelphia Inquirer. 



FOR SCHOLARS AND THE GENERAL READER I OF SPECIAL INTEREST TO LIBRARY WORKERS 



The Ghost in Hamlet 

And Other Essays in Comparative Literature. By Dr. 
Maurice Francis Egan. 16mo, 81.00 net. 

As Professor of English Literature at the CathoUc Univer- 
sity of Washington. Dr. Egan is well known both as a thorough 
scholar and a charming writer. The other titles are: Some 
Phases of Shakespearean Interpretation; Some Pedagogical 
Uses of Shakespeare; Lyrism in Shakespeare's Comedies; A 
Definition of Literature ; The Ebb and Flow of Romance ; The 
Greatest of Shakespeare's Contemporaries ; Imitators of Shakes- 
peare : The Puzzle of Hamlet. 



Literature of Libraries 

17th and 18th Centuries. Edited by Henry W. Kent, 
Librarian of the Grolier Club, and John Cotton Dana, 
Librarian of the Newark Public Library. Sold only in 
sets. Regular edition, limited to 250 sets, 812.00 net. 
Large paper edition, limited to 25 sets, 825.00 net. 

Vol. I. " Concerning the Duties and Qualifications of a Libra- 
rian." Vol. n. ■ The Reformed Library Keeper." A series of six 
reprints of rare and out-of-print works on libraries and their 
management. The primary object of the series is to bring within 
the reach of persons interested, and especially of librarians, the 
early authorities on these subjects. The volumes in this series 
will be beautifully printed at the Merrymount Press. 



A. C. McCLURG & CO., PUBLISHERS, CHICAGO 



220 



THE DIAL 



[April 1,1906. 



Ready This Week 



Two Notable Novels 



Mr. Owen Wister's new novel 

Lady Baltimore by the author of •• The Virginian " 

The one characteristic of Mr. Wister's work is expressed in that overworked word sympathy. He knew and 
loved the open plains and the life of the cattle range; so he gave us "The Virginian." His affection for the 
southern city of his new book is as evident as his intimate knowledge of its folk and its historic past ; so he 
gives us a chivalrous, imprudent young hero — and charming women, young and old. Each is an absolutely 
genuine and real bit of American life, besides being a delightful story. 

Illustrated with full-page half-tones and drawings in the text. Cloth, $1.50. 

Autographed large-paper edition, on Japanese vellum, 100 only offered for sale. $5.00 net. 

Mr. Egerton Castle's new novel 

If Youth But Knew by the author of •♦ Young April " 

The book is totally different from Mr. Castle's " The Pride of Jennico," for example, but shares its atmosphere 
of pure romance — the radiant freshness of a world still young. Illustrated by Launcelot Speed. Cloth, $1.50. 

A Group of Biographies of Uncommon Interest 



TO THE STUDENT OF POLITICS 

Mr. Winston Churchill, M.P.'s 
Life of Lord Randolph Churchill 

" Since Mr. Mor ley's famous ' Life of Gladstone ' there has been no such important contribution to the history of 

the last century.'' — Daily Mail, London. 

" For sheer, breathless interest it surpasses any work of the kind published in our time." — Daily Chronicle. 

In two volumes. 8vo, $9.00 net (carriage extra). 
TO THE STUDENT OF HISTORY 

The Life and Writings of Benjamin Franklin 

Edited by ALBERT H. SMYTH, Philadelphia. To be complete in ten volumes. 
" No edition of Franklin's writings has ever approached this in fulness." — Review of Reviews. 
" Everywhere we touch him he is the human and therefore the fascinating Franklin."— W. P. Trent in The Forum. 

Four volumes now ready. Cloth, Svo, each $3.00 net (carriage extra). 

TO THE STUDENT OF PERSONAL INFLUENCE 



Professor C. T. Winchester's 



new 



Life of John Wesley 



It is a truthful, vivid narrative of a personality of unusual power, one of the most prominent figures of the 
eighteenth century, a man who for some thirty years probably exerted a stronger personal Influence than any 
other in all England. Cloth, Svo, $1.50 net (postage 15 cents). 

Memoirs of Archbishop Temple by Seven Friends 



Edited by E. G. SANDFOBD. Archdeacon of Exeter. 



With photogravure and other illustrations. 

Two volumes. Svo, $9.00 net. 



TO THE STUDENT OF ART 

Mr. William Holman Hunt's autobiographical reminiscences 

Pre-Raphaelitism and the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood 

" Simply for its pictures of that o4d life, for its vivid anecdote, for its riches of personalia, and for its manly tone, 
the narrative is readable and delightful to a wonderful degree." — Atlantic Monthly. 

In two volumes. Illustrated with forty full-page photogravures. Cloth, Svo, $10.00 net (carriage extra). 



Other Recent Notable Issues 



Dr. Henry Charles Lea's new work 

A History of the Inquisition of Spain to be complete in four voiume$ 

The author makes an uncommonly interesting contribution to the study of human history in his clear illuminat- 
ing account of how Spain developed from the most tolerant to the most intolerant of Christian countries. Of the 
disastrous outcome his later volumes will be the record. Volume I., 620 Svo pages. $2.50 net (postage 22 cents). 

Mr. James Loeb's translation of M. Paul Decharme's 

Euripides and the Spirit of His Dramas 

It is noteworthy at once for its breadth of view, power of close analysis, and vigor of presentation. An introduc- 
tion is supplied by Professor John Williams White, of Harvard University. 

With four full-page illustrations. Cloth, octavo, S92 pages, $3.00 net. 

The Macmillan Company, Publishers, 64-66 5th Ave., New York 



THE DIAL 

a Snni=ffi0nrt)lg Journal of Eitcrarg Criticism, Disnissixin, antJ l:nf0rmatioiu 



ENTBREO AT THB CHICAGO POSTOFFICB AS SECOND-CLASS MATTER 
BY THE DIAL COMPAKY, PCBLISHEBS 

No. 475. APRIL 1, 1906. Vol- XL. 

COXTES^TS. 

PASB 

THE CARDINAL VIRTDES OF FICTION . . . 221 

COMSIUNICATION 223 

American Literature in British Periodicals. 
M. B. A. 

SANDWICH ISLAND SOUVENIES. Percy F. 

Bicknell 223 

SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS AND HIS WORK. 

Charles Henry Hart 225 

WHAT IS IMMORTALITY ? T. D. A. CockereU . 228 

FROM ANDREW JACKSON TO ANDREW 

JOHNSON. Edwin E. Sparks 229 

THE CITY AS DEMOCRACY^ HOPE. Charles 

Zueblin 230 

TRAVELLERS IN MANT LANDS. H. E. Coblentz 232 
Schillings's Flashlights in the Jungle. — GeU's A 
Yankee in Pigmy Land. — Phillips's In the Desert. 
— Passmore's In Further Ardenne. — Hart's A 
Levantine Log Book. — Crosby's Tibet and Tur- 
kestan. — Rawling's The Great Plateau. — De 
Guerville's New Egypt. — Murray's The High- 
Road of Empire. 

BRIEFS ON NEW BOOKS 236 

A charming French hostess and her circle. — Tlie 
poets as torch-bearers. — Wanderings on the Welsh 
borderland. — The author of "Religio Medici." — 
Jotttings of a London journalist. — " Sanctified 
common sense " on public problems. — Sea-shore life 
on the eastern coast. — A glimpse of the ancient 
animal world. — Nature essays and pictures. — 
Greneral Sherman truthfully portrayed. 

BRIEFER MENTION 239 

NOTES 239 

TOPICS IN LEADING PERIODICALS 240 

LIST OF NEW BOOKS 241 



THE CARDINAL VIRTUES OF FICTION. 



The modem novel is so versatile a thing, and 
offers so varied an appeal to the interests of its 
readers, that the determination of criteria for 
its proper appraisement is made a pecvdiarly 
difficult task for the critic. The difficulty is 
possibly greater than in the case of any other 
of the recognized literary forms, since a novel 
may achieve distinction, or at least obtain the 
vogue which is a temporary equivalent for dis- 
tinction, in any one of a score of ways. If it 



exhibit some particular sort of excellence in a 
marked degree, it will find its special circle of 
admirers, who will praise it for that quality 
alone, caring little for its shortcomings in other 
directions. An d the total public, even of novel- 
readers who require of themselves some measure 
of critical accounting for their own tastes, is so 
vast that it is sure to include enough people to 
constitute an audience of respectable propor- 
tions for almost any author who displays any 
kind of real ability, no matter how cramped 
may be its expression. 

Nevertheless, out of all the chaos of aim 
and achievement which is illustrated by modem 
fiction, it ought to be — it must be — possible 
to evolve a critical order of some description, to 
determine certain ideal standards of workman- 
ship, and to classify under a few general cap- 
tions the enduring elements of the artistic con- 
ception embodied in the novel considered as a 
form of literary production. When one has 
read some thousands of novels with a view to 
something more than the entertainment they 
offer, with what we would call a scientific pur- 
pose were it not for the imf ortunate associations 
of the word '' science " when mentioned in con- 
nection with literary criticism; when one has 
done this, the essential features of the novel- 
form gradually emerge from a welter of fugitive 
impressions, and shape themselves in the read- 
er's consciousness, creating for him a norm to 
which he will thereafter refer his new impres- 
sions, and upon which he will base his judg- 
ments. These features or elements we have 
ventured to call the cardinal virtues of fiction, 
and will now endeavor to consider them one by 
one. 

The first of the virtues may be called inven- 
tion, although this single word is inadequate 
for the expression of ovir meaning. Some such 
phrase as "selection of material" would be 
better, for of invention in the literal sense there 
is not likely to be much question. The plots 
. have all been used many times over, and even 
the incidents do not often have the merit of 
real novelty. Relative novelty is about all that 
the writer of fiction may hope to achieve, even 
in the details of his work, while for his main 
material he is thrown back upon the old mo- 
tives and complications. For effects which will 



222 



THE DIAL 



[April 1, 



produce even the illusion of novelty, hia chief 
reliance must be in the stage-settmg rather than 
in the story, and here, so great is the possible 
variety of scenes offered by life present and life 
past, so changeable are the fashions of literature, 
and so short are the memories of readers, he 
may succeed in lending a seeming freshness to 
some tale which in its essence is as old as Rome 
or Babylon. 

Closely allied to the virtue of what we have 
called invention is that of construction, and in 
the cultivation of this virtue the artist finds his 
first real opportunity. The architectonic char- 
acter of a successfid work of fiction is one of its 
most important features, and not a little of the 
satisfaction we find in reading a novel comes from 
the sense that we are following a logical plan, 
with a nice adjustment of parts, with a careful 
adaptation of means to ends, and with a steady 
development of plot-interest up to the moment 
when the climax is reached. The art of proceed- 
ing from climax to conclusion calls for no less 
thought than the art of working up to the climax, 
and there is greater danger of scamping this part 
of the work than any other. To accomplish all 
that has here been suggested is to be tndy crea- 
tive, not perhaps in the highest sense, but cer- 
tainly creative in the sense of contributing an 
element of one's own to the material supplied by 
the world outside. 

^ Many novels are successful, and deservedly so, 
by virtue of excellence in these two respects of 
invention and construction. Theirs is not the 
most enduring kind of success, but it is one by 
no means to be despised. It is, moreover, the 
only kind of success that makes anything ap- 
proaching an immediate and imiversal appeal to 
readers, for the success that eventually sets a 
work of fiction among the classics of literature 
is apt to be no more than a succes d'estime with 
the generation that witnesses its production. It 
is not by the applause of contemporary throngs, 
but by the judgment of the few, accimudated 
through following generations, that the world 
comes to know for the masterpiece that it is such 
a work as " Don Quixote," or " I Promessi 
Sposi," or "Wilhehn Meister," or "Tom 
Jones," or " The Scarlet Letter." Meanwhile, 
each generation has its own popular fictions, 
outshining for the time more important works, . 
but neglected by the next generation because 
lacking in the virtues of the higher sort. 

These higher virtues, which are the sure anti- 
septics of literature, are the virtues of charac- 
terization, style, and truth. With the virtue of 
characterization we reach our own climax, in this 



brief critical survey of the essentials of artistic 
fiction. It is the one absolutely indispensable 
virtue of the novel that is to be considered seri- 
ously, for the pages that do not frame for us 
figures of men and women who really live, who 
are even more certainly denizens of the peopled 
world as our consciousness knows it tlian are 
most of the flesh and blood beings whom we 
jostle (but do not know) in the daily walk of life, 
then those pages may be excellent literature, but 
they are assuredly not the pages of an excellent 
novel. We have said tliat construction is a crea- 
tive act, and so it is, but the creative act par 
excellence of the novelist is the shaping of hu- 
man beings in the moulds of the imagination, 
and their portrayal in such subtle wise, and with 
such force of penetrative sympathy, that they 
take their rightful place among our intimates, 
becoming perhaps more truly our intimates than 
those whom we know best in the actual world. 
Who lias not felt, for example, that he has a 
closer acquaintance with some of the people of 
Scott's or Thackeray's or George Eliot's creation 
than with the best of his own personal friends? 

The novelist who creates character, then, may 
be sure that his work will live, however it may 
fail in practising the other virtues of the fictive 
art. It is all the better, of course, if inven- 
tive and constructive skill be superadded to the 
power of characterization, and still better if, in 
further addition, there be exhibited the power 
of style and the power of truth. By style we 
mean everytliing that relates to beauty in its 
formal aspect, as distinguished from those other 
aspects of beauty which are the good and the 
true. Style in the novel may be displayed in 
many ways. Its most obvious function is found 
in the descriptive passages, but there is (or may 
be) exhibited a power of style in the narrative, 
in the analysis of motive, and even in the direct 
discourse of the characters. And it must be 
remembered that although style is one, styles 
are many, and verbal beauty is equally available 
for the diverse moods of humor and pathos, of 
sparkling animation and serious contemplation. 

If we find in characterization the supreme 
creative activity of the novelist, and in style the 
supreme expression of his feeling for formal 
beauty, we must turn to truth for the supreme 
expression of his artistic conscience. And we 
mean by truth not only the truth of observation 
and report, of psychological relation and logical 
process, but also, and even more insistently, the 
truth that is ethical in its outlook, the truth that 
respects sanctions, and discerns morality to be 
in very fact the inmost nature of things. To 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



223 



embody truth, thus apprehended, whether by 
reason or by intuition, in the very foundations 
of his structure, must be the aim of every serious 
novelist, has been the determination of all the 
novelists whose works we now hold in honor. 
Thus fiction and truth, whose names are as the 
poles, are seen as one and the same thing from 
this philosophical ^'ie\\^int, which *' was some 
time a paradox, but now the time gives it proof." 
The foregoing somewhat abstract discussion 
may seem to have little relation to fiction as 
illustrated by the stories one reads from day to 
day for diversion, or by the publishers' output 
from year to year. But its relation to fiction 
in a serious sense, to fiction considered as con- 
stituting one of the three principal forms of 
imaginative literature, is of the most \'ital char- 
acter, for it is in accordance with some such 
analysis as we have here sought to make that 
the definite litei-ary status of every novel must 
be fixed. The fact is irrelevant that ninety- 
nine novels out of every hundred would get no 
status at all when rated by the tests here pro- 
posed. It is with the himdredth novel alone that 
the student of literature has to deal, and it is 
highly important that he deal vnth it upon a 
clearly-outlined critical plan. We are aware 
that we have suggested an outline and nothing 
more, but it is frequently athdsable, in criticism 
as in other intellectual occupations, to recur to 
first principles, to make sure that our point of 
departure has been well-chosen, and that we have 
started in the right direction for the imseen 
distant goal. 



COMMUNICA TION. 



AMERICAN LITERATUEE IN BRITISH 

PERIODICALS. 

(To the Editor of The Dial.) 

In the January number of a magazine called " Cxrr- 

rent Literature " I found that fine, significant poem, 

" The King's Fool," bv Mr. William J. Xeidig, printed 

with the foUoM-ing editorial introduction: 

" The stansas below come from one of the British periodicals. 
We have neglected to make a record of the name." 

Chancing to open, just now, a new periodical entitled 
" The Shakespeare Monthly and Library Companion," I 
find Mr. Aldrich's weU-known lines, " Gulielmus Rex," 
printed under the caption " The Unknown Shakespeare," 
with this preliminary note: 

" To the Editor: — The following was clipped from an Irish 
newspaper of recent date. The writer's name is not given. If 
you think it worthy of a place," etc., etc. 

The vicarious modesty of the " if you think it worthy " 
is touching! 

Qurry : Is there a syndicate engaged in " conveying " 
American literature to British periodicals? 

M. B. A. 

Stanford University, March SO, 1906, 



^^t Itffaj §00ks. 



Sajvdavich Islaxd Souvexirs.* 



To the Sandwich Islands, as they were then 
commonly called, there went in 1831 a young 
missionary, David Belden Lyman, of New 
Hartford, Connecticut. To share his labors in 
christianizing the heathen he took with him his 
newly- wedded wife, a Green Moimtain girl from 
Royalton, Vermont. Of this good New England 
parentage was bom, four years later, at Hilo on 
the island of Hawaii, the author of the volume 
under review, Dr. Henry Munson Lyman. Like 
so many of the early missionaries sent out by 
the American Board, the elder Lyman was 
educated at Williams College, the birthplace of 
the foreign-mission movement, and at Andover 
Theological Seminary. And to Williams came 
in course of time the son also for his college 
I training. An early page of his book gives a view 
of Kellogg Hall, now no more, which older grad- 
uates will contemplate with pleasant memories, 
and with ready recognition notA^snthstanding the 
omission of its name on the plate and in the text. 

" Hawaiian Yesterdays" is the story of a stren- 
uous life amid the rudest surroundings. The 
semi-savagery of the natives, the lack of the 
commonest domestic conveniences, the heart- 
breaking remoteness from civilization and 
friends, the practical certainty of never more re- 
visiting the scenes of childhood and youth, made 
a Hawaiian missionary's calling a serious one 
indeed. Some of its features have recently been 
well portrayed in the biography of General Arm- 
strong, whose father's term of service at Honolidu 
synchronized in large part with the Kev. David 
Lyman's labors at Hilo. The present picture of 
Hawaiian life introduces another portion of the 
archipelago, and, keeping the more serious and 
sometimes tragic elements in the backgrovmd, 
gives in a most interesting way the youthful im- 
pressions and occupations and amusements of the 
writer. Indeed, not a few of his pages, in their 
graphic account of ingenious adaptation of means 
to ends, are agreeably reminiscent — unintention- 
ally reminiscent, no doubt — of that classic of 
our childhood, " The Swiss Family Robinson." 
CoiUd a reviewer bestow higher praise ? A not- 
able instance of Yankee ingenuity and thrift oc- 
curs in an early chapter. The General Meeting 
of the Hawaiian mission was an annual conven- 
tion of missionaries and their wives for spiritual 

• Hawaiian Yesterdays. Chapters from a Boy's Life in the 
Islands in the Early Days. By Henry M. Lyman, M.D. nins- 
trated. Chicago : A. C. McClurg St Co. 



224 



THE DIAL 



[April 1, 



quickening, and also for the supplying of bodily 
needs out of such cargoes as had arrived from 
Boston in the preceding twelve months. 

" On a certain occasion, the Reverend Mr. Richards 
arrived from his station at Lahaina, only in time to 
ascertain that the last vestige of clothing had been dis- 
tributed, leaving him literally ' out in the cold.' This 
was a dreadful disappointment, for his only paii" of black 
trousers was in the last stage of disintegration; and in 
what other color could he appear before the Lord as an 
honored and God-fearing ecclesiastic ? His excellent 
wife came cheerfully to the rescue, bringing forth from 
some hidden store an old black satin shirt — treasiu-ed 
memento of youthful gaiety and worldly pleasure. This 
long-discarded article was now offered again upon the 
altar of sacrifice, and under the housewife's deft manip- 
ulation reappeared once more upon the stage of active 
life, transformed into a suit of staid and sombre hue — 
a thoroughly regulated specimen of a genuinely evan- 
gelical pattern. But alas for poor human nature ! The 
incident was eagerly caught up by the profane beach- 
combers of Honolulu, and all along the seacoast of New 
England was recited the story of the luxury in which 
Hawaiian missionaries were living. ' Why, their clothes 
are made of nothing less expensive than the costliest 
silks and satins ! ' " 

This same Mr. Richards was the hero of a bap- 
tismal episode too amusing to omit. A native 
couple, the proud parents of an infant boy, on 
presenting the child for baptism and being asked 
what name they had chosen for their son and 
heir, promptly replied, " Beelzebub." Only 
after grave remonstrance woidd they relinquish 
their choice. The name they finally insisted 
upon as a substitute was " Mr. Richards," for 
that was certainly the name of a good man if 
the other was not ; and so the babe was chris- 
tened " Mr. Richards." 

David Lyman early started a school for native 
boys at Hilo, handing over his pastoral duties 
to the Rev. Titus Coan, father of the now better- 
known Dr. Titus Munson Coan, our author's 
playmate and lifelong friend. With this com- 
rade, or with the boys of the school and their 
teacher, the writer made exploring tours about 
the island and to the volcanoes of Kilauea and 
Mauna Loa in the interior. Noteworthy, among 
other things, is the absence of those countless 
forms of reptile and insect life that might have 
made such excursions in a tropical climate un- 
pleasant if not dangerous. These happy con- 
ditions have now, it appears, been somewhat 
changed for the worse by the importation of the 
mosquito, along with other accompaniments of 
civilization. A description of Kilauea in action, 
as viewed from the crater's edge, will perhaps 
be welcome to those unfamiliar with such spec- 
tacles. 

" Over the recently hardened lava we traveled nearly 
half a mile, coming suddenly upon the level margin of 



the lake of fire. This was a circular pool, fully a thou- 
sand feet in diameter, surrounded by a wall of rock, so 
that as we stood upon the brink the melted lava was 
fifteen or twenty feet below us. Its whole mass was 
in motion, furiously bubbling and boiling, and dashing 
up waves of red-hot foam and spray. Sometimes there 
would be a partial calm, as of the sea after a storm ; a 
considerable portion of the surface would freeze over 
with smooth hard lava, such as we had under foot ; but 
in a few minutes there would be a violent outbreak, and 
the broad field would split open across its whole extent, 
allowing the melted rock to rise through the crevices 
like water coming up over the ice on a river during a 
freshet in the Spring of the year. Huge cakes of solid 
lava would tilt up on end, slowly turning over, and 
finally disappearing in a tremendous whirlpool of fiery 
surf thrown up from below. This exhibition was being 
continually renewed all over the lake, while we stood 
chained to the spot, and lost in admiration of the awful 
spectacle, till an unusually vigorous outburst, surging 
forth from under the banks, warned us that we were 
upon an overhanging table-rock which might be hurled 
at any moment into the sea of fire." 

The author, after being well started in book- 
learning by his mother, attended the Reverend 
Daniel Dole's school for mission children at 
Punahou, near Honolulu. The teacher's name 
will call to mind ex-Governor Sanford B. Dole, 
his son, who (another parallelism) came also to 
Massachusetts and to Williams College to finish 
his education. Other helpfid influences besides 
those of school and mission chapel were not 
wanting to the Lymans. Travellers of distinc- 
tion sought shelter from time to time under the 
missionary's roof. In this way acquaintance 
was made with the geologist Dana, with Pro- 
fessor Chester S. Lyman of Yale, with Richard 
H. Dana, Jr., Henry T. Cheever, Miss Isabella 
Bird, Miss Gordon Cumming, Lady Franklin, 
Mrs. Brassey, and others. The writer's expe- 
riences were enlarged also by considerable work 
as a land-surveyor at the age of sixteen, when 
he received a government appointment through 
a friend's intercession. Soon afterward he 
took passage in a whaler for New Bedford and 
a Massachusetts college, sailing round Cape 
Horn, of course, and spending one hundred and 
forty days at sea. Two sperm whales were 
taken just after the Cape was doubled, and 
sundry other incidents diversified the voyage. 
If the earlier chapters recall the famous adven- 
tures of the Robinson family, the later pages 
occasionally remind one of the equally interest- 
ing experiences narrated by the author of " Two 
Years before the Mast." 

Some few matters for criticism, unimportant 
in themselves, but perhaps noteworthy to a 
carefid reviewer, may be briefly set down in 
closing. When, in describing his voyage round 
the Horn, the writer speaks of " Oceanus and 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



22& 



Varuna, with their joyous cohort, . . . rising 
from rejK)se beneath the purple sea," he allows 
himself a mixtiu-e of m3i;hologies that might have 
been avoided with the same propriety that for- 
bids a mixture of metaphors. A Hawaiian youth 
of unusual vocal power is said to be " blessed 
with the lungs of a stentor." Why is our Ho- 
meric herald thus relegated to the category of 
common nouns ? A moimtain gorge is called a 
"canon" — with no tilde over the n. If the 
printer's font lacked this character, the word 
could easily, and very properly, have been spelled 
" canyon." *' Cadavoric " is perhaps a mere mis- 
print ; " dicispline " certainly is. Calling the 
porpoise a fish may be suffered to pass as a bit 
of literary license. The book is well illustrated, 
although some of the plates, from paintings by 
Miss Gordon Cimuning, are less excellent tech- 
nically than they are interesting for other reasons. 
From cover to cover the book is entertaining, 
and we trust its writer's cheerfvd yesterdays may 
be followed by many confident to-morrows. 
Percy F. Bicknell. 



Sir Joshua Reynolds jcsd his Work,* 



Sir Joshua Reynolds is, and must remain, 
easily the first portrait painter of the eighteenth 
century, and his porti-aits are universally ac- 
knowledged to be among the best ever painted. 
He can therefore, mthout danger, be brought 
into close contrast A\ath the illustrious porti-ait 
painters that preceded him, while none who have 
come after have approached the ^^•ide scope and 
broad powers that were undeniably his. That 
his portraits are often flattered likenesses, as was 
charged in Reynolds's o^ti day, is undoubtedly 
true ; but he never sacrificed character to flat- 
tery, not even in his portraits of women, where 
it was most often exercised. In many of his male 
portraits, he is a pronoimced, almost a brutal, 
realist, not even sa\dng himself, — as ANitness, in 
one of his seK-portraits he wears spectacles, in 
another he holds his ear-trumpet, and in a third 
has his hand to his ear in the attitude of listen- 
ing, each of these details marking his infirmities, 
either of sight or of hearing ; recall also that 
great portrait of Doctor Johnson holding a book 

* Sir Joshua Rey^jolds, First President of the Royal Acad- 
emy. By sir Walter Armstrong. Popular edition. Illustrated. 
New York : Imported by Charles Scribner's Sons. 

SiK Joshua Reynolds, P.R.A. By William B. Boulton. Illus- 
trated. New York : E. P. Button & Co. 

Discourses delivered to the students of the Royal Academy. 
By Sir Joshua Reynolds, Kt. With Introduction and Notes by 
Roger Fry. Illustrated. New York : E. P. Dutton & Co. 



close to his eyes, which " Ursa Major " remon- 
strated against as preserving a record of his 
near-sightedness, saying to Mrs. Thrale: " Rey- 
nolds may paint himseK as deaf as he chooses, 
but I will not be Blinking Sam in the eyes of 
posterity." Such an objection coming from 
Johnson seems odd, in view of the answer he once 
gave to Boswell's question as to what was the 
first merit of a portrait, — " Truth, Sir, is of the 
greatest value in these things." 

Flattery or no flattery, there can be no ques- 
tion in the mind of anyone familiar with Rey- 
nolds's work that his portraits of the men and 
women of his time enable one to live those times 
over again with them. His power of characteri- 
zation was so strong, and he had such an agile 
hand to fix it as quickly as it was discerned, that 
each portrait he has given us, in all the enor- 
mous number he painted, is the portrait of the 
individual limned. Other painters executed por- 
traits of Johnson, Goldsmith, Burke, Sterne, and 
of many other notable characters ; but in Rey- 
nolds's portraits of these personages we know 
that we see the men before us as they appeared 
to their friends and contempoi-aries, and we read 
their characters in their faces as we have read 
them in their lives and writings. 

There never was a painter who had the power 
of giving such distinction to his portraits as 
RejTiolds had ; and it is quite remarkable that 
this should be so, considering that he was not an 
impeccable draughtsman. But he did possess to 
a marked degree that intangible quality called 
taste, which made him avoid whatever was com- 
monplace or conventional in pose and arrange- 
ment, and always gave grace and dignity to his 
work. RejTiolds had other defects as a painter 
besides his frequent bad drawing, which we can- 
not help thinking, in view of the superb drawing 
in some of his pictures (especially the Lord 
Heathfield and the Doctor Johnson in the Na- 
tional Gallery) , was due to haste and carelessness; 
while some of it may be owing to the fact that 
he never drew with charcoal but painted in with 
the fidl brush from the start. His portraits 
sometimes lack solidity and seriousness, and his 
mania for experimenting Avith colors has led 
to the fading and cracking of his work to a 
lamentable degree, so that his fame, especially 
as a colorist, rests largely upon the testimony of 
those who saw his works fresh from the easel or 
comparatively soon after, before time and the 
restorer together had helped to ruin them. He 
and the art-loving public also owe a large debt 
of gratitude to the masterful mezzotint scrapers 
of his time, who have handed down his works in 



226 



THE DIAL 



[April 1, 



the beautiful black and white translations we all 
know so well, and thus preserved what otherwise 
would have been in great part lost. 

Sir Joshua Reynolds has been " written up " 
almost to death. Biographies, studies, and mono- 
graphs upon him are legion, — from those written 
by his contemporaries who knew him, such as 
Northcote, Farington, Mason, and Malone, fol- 
lowed by Cunningham, Cotton, Leslie, and 
Taylor, down to the present time, when the latest 
are the volumes by Sir Walter Armstrong and 
by Mr. W. B. Boulton. His Discourses, too, 
have been many times printed and reprinted, 
translated and edited ; notwithstanding which we 
now have a new edition with notes by Mr. Roger 
Fry. Sir Joshua can therefore hardly be called, 
personally or professionally, an unknown quan- 
tity, and his character has always been held up 
as altogether admirable and signally free from 
taint, except in the writings of the two Scotch- 
men who have wi*itten about him, Allan Cun- 
ningham and Sir Walter Armstrong, each of 
whom seems to nurture some uncanny Scotch 
malevolence against him. I have tried to dis- 
cover if there could be any national reason for 
this strange antipathy, but can find none ; and 
were it not for the coincidence that it is only 
Scotchmen who have decried him, it would not 
be worth mentioning. 

The volume by Sir Walter Armstrong is a 
republication, without revision (which is a pity, 
considering that the Graves and Cronin "His- 
tory of the Works of Sir Joshua Reynolds" has 
since appeared and would have cleared up some 
doubtful attributions of ownership, etc.), of a 
luxurious folio issued in 1900, which contained 
an important catalogue of Sir Joshua's work, 
quite the most valuable part of the voliune, but 
which imfortunately is omitted from the reprint. 
This is particidarly bad, as on page 164 of the 
reprint, in a note to the paintings of "Mrs. Sid- 
dons as the Tragic Muse," the reader is referred 
to the catalogue : " For some further details bear- 
ing on their history, see the Catalogue at the end 
of this volimie." But non est. A folio is such 
an inconvenient volume to read, that I had not 
tackled the original edition, and so was ready 
to welcome eagerly its republication in handy 
size. What was my dismay on finding that Sir 
Walter's point of view as to RejTiolds's life 
and character was, to say the least, unusual and 
equally untenable. His whole aim seems to be 
to belittle and disparage Sir Joshua as a man, 
and as a result to lessen the potentiality of his 
art. As Mr. Fry weU says in his introduction 
to the Discourses : " Of Reynolds the man there 



is no need to speak here at length ; the outlines 
of his character are so simple, so familiar, they 
have been retraced so often by his contempo- 
raries and successors, and that with such a re- 
markable uniformity of commendation — if we 
except a few spiteful phrases in Cunningham's 
Life and the singidar view of his actions taken 
by Sir Walter Armstrong — that to repeat them 
here again would be superfluous. One need only 
refer to the rounded completeness and harmony, 
the deliberation and method he showed in all 
his undertakings, and the freedom from all that 
is petty or narrow, which distinguished him in 
life as much as in art and made each so nicely 
complementary to the other." What is the mes- 
sage conveyed by a picture, depends wholly upon 
the point of view of the beholder ; and whether 
that message is the one intended by the painter, 
or the very reverse, depends likewise upon how 
near alike are the view-points of the painter and 
of the observer. Now Sir Joshua's point of 
view and Sir Walter's are as far apart as the 
antipodes. Were this not so it would be im- 
possible for Sir Walter to see Sir Joshua as he 
has drawn him ; and such being the case, while 
Sir Walter's views of Sir Joshua, both as a man 
and as an artist, may be perfectly satisfactory 
to him, they will satisfy no unbiased student of 
the life and works of the First President of the 
Royal Academy of Arts. Sir AValter seems to 
think it a crime for a man to be well balanced, 
temperate, and calm. 

. To an analytical criticism of the two Scotch 
detractors of Reynolds, Mr. Boulton devotes ten 
pages of his volume. Of the first, he says 
(p. 314): " To this account of the painter, he 
[Allan Cminingham] brought no single fact 
that was not already preserved in the lives by 
Northcote and Malone, but he deliberately took 
the plain tales of those writers and treated them 
with an ingenuity of perversion which is alto- 
gether extraordinary." Of the second, he writes 
(p. 317): " The latest and most notable of the 
critics of RejTiolds's character is Sir Walter 
Armstrong, who in that fine volume published 
in 1900 arrives at much the same estimate of 
the man as Allan Cunningham. It is needless, 
however, to say that his views are expressed 
without any of Cunningham's rancour, and that 
they are the result of an obvious endeavor to be 
just. The present writer is none the less con- 
vinced that Sir Walter is completely mistaken 
in the opinion he has formed of Reynolds's per- 
sonality." And as a final and impartial judg- 
ment upon Reynolds's character, by one who, 
all wiU admit, " knew the times better than 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



227 



most and was gifted beyond the ordinary with 
an insight into the hearts of men and women," 
Mr. Boulton ends his volume with Thackeray's 
words : "I declare, I think of all the polite 
men of that age Joshua Reynolds was the finest 
gentleman."' 

It is a wonder that Sir Walter did not, fol- 
lowing the fashion of the present day when a 
man Ls to be flayed by his biographer, call his 
book "• The True Sir Joshua Rej-nolds." Then 
we should have known what to expect. We 
might, indee<l, have been prepared for some- 
thing of the kind by the " Author's Note." " If 
my estimate of his character is found to differ 
in essential points from that usually accepted, I 
can only say that it has been formed after a 
very carefid weighing of the evidence." This 
" careful weighing of the evidence " would im- 
ply the exercise of the judicial spirit, which is 
precisely what is most wanting in Sir Walter's 
pages, and stamps his estimate of RejTiolds's 
character as both narrow and perverted. One 
trouble with Sir Walter is his utter inability to 
assimilate the atmosphei-e of the eighteenth cen- 
tury. He is a t\s entieth centurion to the back- 
bone, with no sentiment and no imagination. 

The styles of these volumes are as different 
as theii- treatment. The first is marred by the 
bad taste of attempting to be fimny when treat- 
ing of serious matters, and the constant in- 
jection of foreign woixis and phrases in a " polly 
show your larnin' " manner, when - the well of 
English imdefiled "' would have served a better 
purpose ; together A\'ith the use of obsolete words 
and careless repetitions, as where, on page 122, 
Sheridan's play " A Trip to Scarborough " is 
mentioned as a " toned-tlowTi version of Yan- 
brugh's Relapse," and four pages later we read 
" The Trip to Scarborough, Sheridan's version 
of Vanbrugh's Relapse." 

The second is altogether a delightful book, 
well flavored with the atmosphere of the times, 
and generally well \\Titten, but with some pas- 
sages quite involved and obscure, so as to require 
a careful re-reading to ascei-tain the sense. Mr. 
Boidton has cidled judiciousl}- from what has been 
written about Reynolds by those who knew and 
understood him, as well as by those who did not, 
and the result is eminentl}^ satisfactory ; while 
his final chapters, on " The Artist " and on 
" The Man," are thoroughly convincing. He 
has a refined critical sense, and does Sir Joshua, 
both as a man and as an artist, ample justice, 
without in any way becoming a servile eulogist. 
While the work of Leslie and Taylor must re- 
main the best source for an original study of 



Reynolds, this volume is easily the best general 
survey that we know. 

The third work is WTitten in that clear and 
terse English for which Reynolds's Discourses 
have ever been distinguished, and which has 
put into the heads of some people the thought 
that Johnson or Burke had a hand in their 
composition, — on hearing which the gruff old 
lexicographer exclaimed, '' Reynolds would as 
soon require me to paint for him as to ^\Tite." 
Mr. Fry's reason for this new edition of the Dis- 
courses we cordially endorse. He writes : " The 
present edition has been undertaken from a be- 
lief that their value stiU persists, that the Dis- 
courses are not merely a curious and entertaia- 
ing example of eighteenth century literature, 
but that they contain principles and exhibit a 
mental attitude which are of the highest value 
to the artist." Mr. Fry has written a general 
introduction to the body of Discourses, and a 
separate special introduction to each discourse ; 
and he advises that these introductions, as they 
are really commentaries, should be read after 
and not before the discourse itself. He has also 
supplied lucid critical notes to the reproductions 
of those paintings which Reynolds especially 
considered noteworthy, and his work is well done 
and exceedingly valuable. 

While Reynolds's political opinions are not 
of much consequence at this day, yet one phase 
of them is of some interest on this side of the 
ocean. He was a stanch Whig and a friend of 
the colonies. Copley has received the credit of 
having given Sir Joshua this bias ; but if he did, 
it was doubtless much strengthened by his famil- 
iar intercourse with Edmund Burke. However 
this may be, it is amusing to note that when 
To\STisend, the father of the Stamp Act biU, sat 
to RejTiolds, they wrangled over the colonies, and 
the artist bet the politician (who was boasting 
that the arch-rebel Washington would soon be 
brought to England a prisoner, and that he 
would bring him to Sir Joshua to paint his por- 
trait) that Washington would never enter his 
studio. The bet, which was five pounds against 
a thousand, made quite a sensation in London, 
and RejTiolds was forced to repeat it a score of 
times, on the same terms, to his own advantage. 

Reynolds was as careless in signing his pic- 
tures as have been other painters of past times. 
He is known to have signed but two canvases, 
the "IVIrs. Siddons" and "Lady Cockburn with 
her Children." Sir Walter Armstrong claims 
that this assertion " is not strictly true "; but 
he fails to instance other signed pictures to sus- 
tain the correctness of his assertion, which he 



228 



THE DIAL 



[April 1, 



certainly should have done did he know them. 
Our own Stuart is known to have signed but 
two canvases also ; and it is pertinent to inquire 
here, where is Stuart's portrait of Sir Joshua 
Reynolds, painted for Boydell ? 

Although these three volumes bear the im- 
prints of American houses, they are of English 
manufacture, and unfortunately have the fault, 
so common in transatlantic publications, of inad- 
equate indexing, while possessing the usual En- 
glish excellence of typography and illustrations. 
Charles Henry Hart. 



What is Immortality ? * 

The Ingersoll Lecture for 1906 was delivered 
by Dr. Wilhelm Ostwald, Professor of Physical 
Chemistry at Leipzig, and temporary Professor 
at Harvard. The perennial subject of this now 
celebrated lectureship is " The Immortality of 
Man"; and if Professor Ostwald's treatment of 
it does remind us of the famous chapter on snakes 
in Iceland, it at any rate represents the matured 
opinions of a scientific man of preeminent ability, 
and as such deserves and will receive widespread 
attention. 

At the very outset, the lecturer calls attention 
to the fact that our knowledge " is an incomplete 
piece of patchwork "; but, he adds, each one is 
boimd to make the best possible use of it, such 
as it is, never forgetting that it may at any time 
be superseded by new discoveries or ideas. In 
this truly scientific spirit, very remote from the 
dogmatism of the churches, Professor Ostwald 
proceeds to consider what immortality may be 
supposed to be, and what reasons we have for 
believing in it. 

The argument runs something like this : Mem- 
ory, in a broad sense, is characteristic of all 
organic life, but man differs from all the other 
creatures in the ntiuch greater development of 
this power, whereby his culture and adaptability 
become possible. Memory links the past with 
the present, and makes possible psychical con- 
tinuity. Heredity may be regarded as an analo- 
gous phenomenon, and hence, so long as the race 
remains alive, it may be regarded as one, like 
the individual. This physical " immortality " 
appears to have no necessary ending, but it is 
easy to conceive of the destruction of all indi- 
viduals living upon the earth ; and given time 
enough, such destruction appears certain. This, 
however, is not reaUy the sort of immortality 



•Individuality and Immortality. 
Boston : Houghton Mifflin & Co. 



By Wilhelm Ostwald. 



we are seeking, and we turn to consider other 
types of persistence. It is generally said that 
matter and energy cannot be created or destroyed ; 
but this means, merely, that the sum-totals are 
supposed to remain the same, the individuality 
of particidar portions of these things being con- 
tinually subject to change and disappearance. 
We do not actually know that mass and energy 
are unchangeable in amount ; and given eternity, 
the probability may be equally strong for or 
against any statement based upon human expe- 
rience. The prevalent conception of the eternity 
of the elementary bodies has been rudely shaken 
of late ; and, in fact, it appears that there is a 
whole series of such bodies, persisting for vary- 
ing periods, from a few seconds to many millions 
of years ; or, for practical purposes, forever. 
But whatever may be true concerning these 
things, they do not throw any light on human 
immortality, because there is no permanence of 
individuality. There is an irresistible tendency 
towards diffusion and homogeneity, and this is 
equally true of man. There is also perpetual 
change, so that what we call the persistence of 
individuality in ordinary life means only the con- 
tinuity of a series of changes. Survival after 
death does not necessarily imply immortality ; 
it may be regarded in two ways, either as con- 
tinuity of changes or as the passage into a trans- 
cendent state in which there is no further change, 
and time and space cease to have any meaning. 
In the latter case, we have what is practically 
equivalent to annihilation ; in the former, we 
have the prolongation of that which, in the case 
of persons who have reached old age, appears to 
have already rim its course, so that death is sim- 
ply the doing away with something which has 
ceased to have any reason for living. Socially, 
we may speak of the " immortals," whose works 
live after them, but even they must fade from 
memory as distinct individuals, sooner or later. 
Finally, if we give up the idea of personal im- 
mortality, we may perhaps be led thereby to a 
higher etliical plane ; for we shall see that our 
real continuity is in the human race, and shall 
thus be led to identify ourselves more and more 
with it ; and so the lecturer concludes : 

" Beside the fact of inherited taint there exists the 
fact of inherited perfection, and every advance which 
we, by the sweat of our brows, may succeed in making 
towards our own perfection is so much gain for our 
children and our children's children forever. I must 
confess that I can think of no grander perspective of 
immortality than this." 

The discussion is an interesting one, both 
from its statement of scientific views and from 
the glimpse it affords of the mind of the author. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



229 



It is, nevertheless, strangely incomplete, almost 
ignoring the deeper questions at issue. What 
does Professor Ostwald mean by " forever " in 
the last quotation ? If it is not a piece of mere 
rhetoric, it is incorrect in the light of one of 
the most assured prophecies of science that the 
human race must sooner or later come to an end. 
This earth cannot perpetually revolve in the 
same orbit, warmed by the same sun ; for even 
solar systems have but their little day. Where, 
then, is the promise of immortality ; and, in the 
light of eternitj^ what greater value have the 
days of humanity collectively, than those of 
single individuals? 

What, after aU, are the attributes of per- 
sonality? Personality is able to experience; 
it is that which experiences. Says Professor 
Ostwald : " If we recall the happiest moments 
of our lives, they will be found in every case to 
be connected with a curious loss of personal- 
ity. In the happiness of love this fact will be 
at once discovered. And if you are enjoying 
intensely a work of art, a symphony of Bee- 
thoven's, for example, you find yourseK relieved 
of the burden of personality and carried away 
by the stream of music as a drop is carried 
by a wave." What a curious misconception I 
In the moments of the most intense feeling, per- 
sonality is said to be lost ! On the contrary, it 
reaches its highest power, and is found indeed. 
The confusion comes from a materialistic con- 
ception of individuality wliich underlies the 
whole argument. Objectively, to the ordinary 
individual. Professor Ostwald is a professor at 
Leipzig, and a great chemist. When he hears 
beautiful music, or sees a charming landscape, 
he totally forgets, for the moment, that he is 
either of the things just mentioned ; he forgets 
his name, his age, his nationality. Has he then 
lost himself in the process ? By no means ; he 
has, on the contrary, found what is most funda- 
mental in his being ; and has, in the act, proved 
himseK independent of the accessories which in 
ordinary life seem of first importance. 

Tested in the same way, the assertion that 
mental life is conditioned by bodily existence 
assumes a quite different meaning. If person- 
ality is that which experiences, and if it can 
reside in time and space, must it not experience 
those things which time and space afford? 
What I may see and feel at any given time de- 
pends upon what is there, and it makes no differ- 
ence to the argument whether the " things" are 
*' things in themselves" or projections of my 
own imagination. To show that there is no im- 
mortality, it is necessary to show that experience 



ends, while the material for experience continues. 
This, of course, is beyond demonstration. 

The linking of the present with the past is 
logically explicable only on the view that the 
present contains that which embodies the past. 
Strictly speaking, when we " remember" what 
happened last week, we become aware of what 
has been recorded in the brain, just as we might 
learn by reading the contents of a book. When 
the past shall have ceased to be exhibited in the 
present, it will have departed indeed; but it is 
science herself who denies this very possibility, 
asserting that effect implies cause, ad infinitum. 
Personality, existing always in the present, 
moves rather than is prolonged in time, and 
hence cannot be conceived to be submerged in 
it. But in the succession of experiences which 
make up conscious life, this or that may occupy 
the field, and we know not what we are destined 
to " remember," what to " forget." It is a great 
mystery, but one which every hour of ordinary 
existence affords, on a small scale. 

T. D. A. COCKERELL. 



From Andrew Jackson to 
Andrew Johnson.* 



A new style of biography was introduced to 
the world of letters a few years since, by Mr. 
Burton Alva Konkle, in the " Life and Times 
of William Smith," a Pennsylvania patriot, 
Revolutionary soldier, and later judge of the 
State Superior Court. The novelty of Mr. 
Konkle's method lies in the introduction of 
matter not pertaining to the activities of the 
man of whom he is writing, but serving as a 
background for his entire career. What was 
done for eastern Pennsylvania in that attempt 
has now been duplicated for Pittsburg and 
western Pennsylvania by Mr. Konkle in a two- 
volume " Life and Speeches of Thomas Will- 
iams," a statesman of that region. By extracts 
from contemporary descriptions, the reader is 
given a conception of the economic and social 
conditions which Williams met at different times 
of his life. The work is a local history of 
Pennsylvania projected on a biographical back- 
ground. In his preface, the author announces 
another similar biography, this time upon " a 
conservative Democratic leader," a contempo- 
rary of Williams. 

The advantage of the author's method lies 

* Life and Speeches of Thomas Williams. Orator, States- 
man, and Jurist, 1806-1872. By Burton Alva Konkle. In two 
volumes. Illustrated. Philadelphia: Campion & Ck). 



230 



THE DIAL 



[April 1, 



in the chance that some reader uninterested in 
the man may be attracted by the local history. 
On the other hand, it requires the introduction 
of a vast amount of extraneous matter not prop- 
erly belonging to biogi-aphy. The life of Will- 
iams, for example, is drawn out to more than 
seven himdred pages, largely by reprints of his 
speeches and pamphlets on the policy of the 
city of Pittsburg in making subscriptions to the 
construction of railways entering it. This was 
purely a local matter, and one that has not 
left an impress upon national history. The in- 
troduction of an almost equally long description 
of the " buck-shot war " in Pennsylvania has 
more warrant, because that event was closely 
connected with national politics. 

Much more valuable than the many reprinted 
pamphlets and speeches of Thomas Williams, 
and even of greater moment than the local his- 
tory with which he was associated, are his letters, 
which by this method have been relegated to the 
background, and for the most part are repre- 
sented by extracts only. A full collection of the 
letters of this " founder of the Whig and Repub- 
lican parties," as the author modestly dubs him, 
or even the subjection of other matter to the let- 
ters, would have resulted in a most interesting 
commentary on public men and matters between 
1830 and 1870. A rare glimpse of President 
Jackson is given in a letter from Williams in 
Washington, whither he had gone with a Pitts- 
burg delegation to protest (think of the courage 
it required ! ) against the removal of the deposits 
from the United States bank. The men were 
scarcely seated in the White House when the 
General opened his batteries and poured forth a 
voUey of abuse. " Little as I had been in the 
habit of contemplating him to be," says the let- 
ter, " I confess I was amazed, shocked at an ex- 
hibition of coarseness & vulgarity which I had 
not been prepared to expect. There was an utter 
want of that dignity which overawes imperti- 
nence & enforces respect. He even so far forgot 
his high station as to contradict flatly our repre- 
sentative, Mr. Denny, & to assert that he knew 
more about the condition of the State Banks 
than all of us together." 

Like Abraham Lincoln, Thomas Williams 
retired from politics after the Mexican war, but 
re-entered because of the repeal of the Mis- 
souri Compromise. He took an active part in 
the Republican Convention of 1856, and drew 
the call for the Convention of 1860 to meet in 
Chicago. At the time of writing this call he 
was a visitor to Washington, where sectional pas- 
sion was at its height in the contest over the 



election of a Speaker of the House. " It was," 
said he, "in the very midst of the tempest and 
fury of denunciation on the floor of Congress, 
and while the Comicil Chamber of the Nation 
was ringing with the treason, which the gal- 
leries were applauding to the echo, that the in- 
vocation to the friends of Union, which is to be 
found in the call that gathered the people at 
Chicago, was penned by my own hand." 

During construction times in Congress, Will- 
iams allied himself with the Radicals, although 
not so extreme in policy as Stevens and his 
crowd. Writing to his wife in 1866, he said 
that a strong disposition existed to impeach 
President Johnson. " No one has any respect 
for and nobody goes to see him. If we coidd 
feel sure of the Senate, there would be no hesi- 
tation about the matter." Again, in describing 
a refusal to dine with the president, Williams 
says he does not care to sit down at table with 
any man for whom he has no personal respect, 
— " one who has betrayed his friends and taken 
to his bosom the worst and vilest of his coun- 
try's enemies." Williams was one of the man- 
agers of the impeachment trial of Johnson, and 
bitterly regretted the failure to convict. 

The two volmnes seem passably free from 
errata. A strange mistake appears (page 726) 
in the statement that Andrew Johnson was not 
impeached ; that to secure impeachment re- 
quired a two-thirds vote of the Senate. The 
author evidently confuses impeachment with 
conviction. Johnson was impeached by vote of 
the House, February 24, 1868. The illustra- 
tions are of unusual value, embracing reproduc- 
tions of contemporary cartoons, cuts, and fac- 
similes of manuscripts and invitations. Few 
of these have been heretofore reproduced. 

Edwest E. Sparks. 



The City as Democracy's Hope.* 



It is difficult to review dispassionately a book 
one could wish he had written himseK, but in a 
coiuitry where everyone professes to believe in 
democracy it is both a privilege and a duty to 
announce a genuine herald. Those of us whose 
faith has remained undiminished must rejoice 
in such an effective and concrete exposition as 
Mr. Howe's volimie on " The City " in an era of 
skepticism and flippancy. As the author says, 
" Distrust of democracy has inspired much of 
the literature on the city. Distrust of democ- 

* The City, the Hope of Democracy. By Frederic C. Howe, 
Ph.D. New York: Charles Scribner's Sons. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



231 



racy has dictated most of our city laws. . . . Our 
charters have been drawn on the supposition 
that all officials were to be distrusted, rather 
than that all officials were to be held to account." 
The confusion about municipal corruption is of 
a kind with the doubts about democracy. We 
have been neither frank nor scientific enough to 
go to the root of the problem — economic self- 
interest. 

" We do not question this motive in the saloonkeeper 
who organizes his precinct for a liberal Sunday. His pol- 
ities are not ethical, they are due to self-interest. The 
same instinct is reflected, consciously or unconsciously, 
in the leaders of finance, the franchise seekers, the 
banker and the broker, the lawyer and the press; all 
are fearful of democracy, when democracy dares to be- 
beve in itself. We all know that economic self-interest 
determines the politics of the saloon. We are begin- 
ning to realize that the same self-interest is the politics 
of big business. This realization explains the awakening 
of democracy, which is taking place in city and state all 
over the land." 

Privilege and democracy cannot thrive together. 
The spoils system is undemocratic : it is petty 
pri\-ilege. Franchise-grabbing is not only un- 
democratic, it is anti-democratic. Inflated values 
based on a social gift " is the price that all our 
cities are paying to those who have requited 
this gift by overturning our institutions. It is 
the price which many insist we shoidd continue 
to pay because of the alleged greater efficiency 
of private enterprise, and the fear that dem- 
ocracy is not equal to the additional burdens 
involved in the assiunption of new obligations." 

The subordination of private interest to pub- 
lic weKare is to be achieved, according: to Mr. 
Howe, by the extension of municipal fimctions 
and the appropriation of the imeametl incre- 
ment. In the first instance the transformation 
is inmiinent. 

" But that the private activities of today will become 
the public ones of tomorrow is inevitable. The creche, 
kindergarten, the settlement, playgrounds, public baths, 
lodging houses, hospitals, were inspired by private phil- 
anthropy. They are slowly passing under public con- 
trol. . . . Today the city protects his [the citizen's] 
life and property from injury. It safeguards his health 
in countless ways. It oversees his house construction 
and protects him from fire. It cleans and lights his 
streets, collects his garbage, supplies him with em- 
ployees through free employment bureaus. It educates 
his children, supplies them with books and in many in- 
stances with food. It offers him a library and through 
the opening of branches almost brings it to his door. It 
offers nature in the parks; supplies him with oppor- 
tunities for recreation and pleasure through concerts, 
lectures, and the like. It maintains a public market; 
administers justice ; supplies nurses, physicians and hos- 
pital service, as well as a cemetery for burial. It takes 
the refuse from his door and brings back water, gas and 
frequently [?J heating power at the same time. It in- 
spects his food, protects his life and that of his children 



through public oversight of the conditions of factory 
labor. It safeguards him from contagious diseases, 
facilitates commimication upon the streets, and in some 
instances offers opportunities for higher technical and 
professional education. . . . 

"All these intrusions into the field of private business 
have involved no loss of freedom to the individuaL 
Every increase of public activity has, in fact, added to 
personal freedom. WTiatever the motive, the real lib- 
erty of the individual has been immeasurably enlarged 
through the assumption of these activities by the 
city. . . . 

" And all this has been achieved at an insignificant 
cost. The expenditure of the average city of over a 
quarter of a million inhabitants ranges from sixteen dol- 
lars to thirty-four dollars per capita, or from sixty 
dollars to one hundred and thirty-six dollars per family, 
a simi which would scarcely pay for the education of a 
single child at a private institution." 

Yet these privileges are trifling compared with 
what might be enjoyed if the public possessed 
what the city has given away. " The value 
of the physical property of the seven traction 
companies in Chicago has been appraised at 
#44,922,011 ; while the market value of the 
securities issued by the corporations amoimts" 
to §120,235,539 ; the public debt of the city in 
1900 was ^2,989,819, or §42,323,709 less 
than the value of the franchises of the traction 
interests alone." 

Mr. Howe's application of the single tax 
seems particularly plausible as a means of pro- 
viding revenue for the imremunerative functions 
which the public service corporations gladly ac- 
cord the city as legitimate municipal activities. 

" Its immediate effect would be a stimulus to building. 
It would at once increase the house supply, it would 
encourage improvements which would then go untaxed. 
Moreover it would force land now lying idle into pro- 
ductive use. It would encourage the honorable and 
punish the slum landlord. It would place a premium 
upon the model tenement and a penalty on the shack. 
. . . Such a change could be inaugurated in any city by 
a law or ordinance exempting all improvements and 
personal property from taxation. ... It seems destined 
by nature as a means of compensation for the costs of 
municipal Ufe. . . . During the years from 1885 to 
1900 inclusive, in San Francisco, the total taxes levied 
for city, county, and state purposes upon real estate, 
improvements and personal property was J$84,252,058, 
at the average rate of 85,265,753 per year. This is 
very much less than the annual speculative increase in 
the land alone. ... In New York the increase in land 
values from 1904 to 1905 was 8140,000,000, or 820,- 
000,000 more than the value of all the offices, hotels, 
apartment houses, and other structures, erected during 
the year. AVhile labor and capital added 8120,000,000 
to the city's wealth, the growth of population created 
8140,000,000." 

It is ungracious to find fault with such an 
invaluable contribution to municipal literature, 
but if democracy is to be attained it will be by 
eternal vigilance and exactness in the face of the 



232 



THE DIAL 



[April 1, 



alert and often unscrupulous critic. Mr. Howe 
is guileless when lie accepts President Eliot's 
approval of the St. Louis school system, which 
though not corrupt is autocratic, and hence tends 
to perpetuate municipal corruption by adminis- 
trative inexperience. His democracy concedes 
too much when he says : " If our cities must be 
governed by a boss, it is most desirable that he 
be an elective one." His enthusiasm for home 
rule causes him to ignore superior functional 
organization when he demands factory inspection 
as a municipal function, whereas if it is not well 
done by the state the logical change would be 
to federal, not local, administration. He appro- 
priates himseK an unearned increment when he 
gives to one of his chapters the title " The City 
for the People," without crediting Professor 
Frank Parsons with the authorship of that splen- 
did phrase, — a species of literary piracy that 
is growing too common among our municipal 
writers. 

These are slips made conspicuous by the un- 
usual excellence of this most valuable of recent 
contributions to municipal subjects. Seldom 
does a writer so successfully justify an ambitious 
title ; rarely is a sentiment, which to many must 
be a contradiction, so ably defended ; and only 
at crucial epochs is it the privilege of a reformer 
to seize the psychological moment as Mr. Howe 
seems to have done in his critical and prophetic 
claim that the city, hitherto abused by all of its 
enemies and many of its friends, is the hope of 
democracy. Charles Zueblin. 



Travellers in Many Lands.* 



In reviewing books of travel and description it is 
hardly worth the space to say that they are well 
illustrated. Modern photography and the art of half- 
tone reproduction have been so perfected that we are 
generally sure of getting excellent results. Indeed, 
many books are now issued solely for their illustra- 

• Flashlights in the Jungle. By C. Q. Schillings. Trans- 
lated by Frederick Whyte. Illustrated. New York : Doubleday, 
Page & Co. 

A Yankee in Pigmy Land. By William Edgar Geil. Illus- 
trated. New York : Dodd, Mead & Co. 

In the Desert. By L. March Phillips. Illustrated. New 
York: Longmans, Green, & Co. 

In Fuetheb Ardenne. By the Beverend T. H. Passmore. 
Illustrated. New York : E. P. Button & Co. 

A Levantine Log Book. By Jerome Hart. Illustrated. New 
York : Longmans, Green, & Co. 

Tibet and Turkestan. By Oscar Terry Crosby, F.R.G.S. 
Illustrated. New York : G. P. Putnam's Sons. 

The Great Plateau. By Captain C. G. Bawling. Illustrated. 
New York: E. P. Dutton & Co. 

New Egypt. By A. B. De Guerville. Illustrated. New York: 
Longmans, Green, & Co. 

The High-Boad of Empire. By A. H. Hallam Murray. Illus- 
trated. New York: E. P. Dutton & Co. 



tions ; the text is a sort of pack-horse that limps 
under the binden of the be-pictiu-ed leaves. Such 
a lavish use of illustrations inclines one to depend 
upon them for a record of the things seen, rather than 
upon the reading matter. Out of this fact arises an 
interesting question : Has the descriptive power of 
writers declined with the rise of the art of photog- 
raphy ? May not the writer of books of travel feel 
that the camera makes sufficient evidence of what he 
has seen, and that laborious descriptive effort sup- 
plementing the camera Avill be lost on the reader? 
At any rate, it is somewhat rare to find sustained 
passages of good description in recent travel books, 
— passages in which the author forsakes the me- 
chanical kodak, in order to heighten and color his 
pages by the glow of his emotions and the imagi- 
native intensity that prompted him to take the picture 
of some beautiful scene. The question is at least an 
open one. 

In the way of evidence for our thesis that as the 
art of photography advances the^ descriptive power 
of the writer declines, we would cite the first book on 
our present list. " Flashlights in the Jungle," by the 
German naturalist C. G. Schillings, is a good illus- 
tration of the mechanical talent that makes many 
modern descriptive books valuable. The autlior, who 
undertook several trips to German East Africa in 
search of sport and specimens for zoological collec- 
tions, added a unique feature to his hunting equip- 
ment. He devised special photographic apparatus 
for long range and flashlight work at night, that he 
might get Naturkunden — nature documents — of 
the intimate wild animal Hfe in equatorial Africa. 
That his apparatus was well devised is attested by 
more than three hundred reproductions of his pho- 
tographs. To see a picture of a lioness about to 
spring on an ox, or one of a bull elephant making his 
last charge before death, or one of three old lionesses 
at a brook, is to realize that the photographer is a 
daring hunter and a venturesome naturalist. Dr. 
Schillings is, however, more than a mere photogra- 
pher of savage animal life, and his book cannot be 
wholly regarded as a mere picture-book ; he is a 
scientist, and his accounts of his hunting trips are 
marked by acute observations on the habits of the ani- 
mals he hunted with gun and camera. It is probably 
no exaggeration to say that this is the most remark- 
able book of wUd animal photogi*aphy that has ever 
been printed, but there our praise is inclined to stop. 
We can commend the laborious efforts of Mr. Schil- 
lings in gathering his elaborate scientific data, but 
we can hardly praise his narrative or descriptive 
skill. We forbear to say more about this interesting 
book, that we may give a long quotation to show the 
spirit of the author and the quality of his work. 

" I had taken several pictures successfully with my 
telephoto-lens, when suddenly for some reason the animals 
[rhinoceroses] stood up quickly, both together as is their- 
wont. Almost simultaneously, the farther of the two, an old 
cow, began moving the front part of her body to and fro, and 
then, followed by the bull with head high in the air, came 
straight for me at full gallop. I had instinctively felt what 
would happen, and in a moment my rifle was in my hands 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



233 



and my camera passed to my bearers. I fired six shots and 
saeceeded in bringing down both animals twice as they mshed 
towards me — great furrows in the sand of the velt showed 
where they fell. My final shot I fired in the absolute cer- 
tainty that my last hour had come. It hit the cow on the 
nape of the neck and at the same moment I sprang to the 
right, to the other side of the brier-bush. My two men had 
taken to flight by this time, but one of the Masai ran across 
my path at this critical moment and sprang right into the 
bush. He had evidently waited in the expectation of seeing 
the rhinoceros fall dead at the last moment, as he had so 
often seen before. With astounding agility the rhinoceroses 
followed me, and half way round the bush I found myself be- 
tween the two animals. It seems incredible now that I tell 
the tale in cold blood, but in that same instant my shots took 
effect mortally, and both rhinoceroses collapsed. I made 
away from the bush about twenty paces when a frantic cry 
coming simultaneously from my men . . . made me turn 
round. A very singular sight greeted my eyes. There was 
the Masai, trembling all over, his face distorted with terror, 
backing for all he was worth inside the bush, while the cow 
rhinoceros, streaming with blood, stood literally leaning up 
against it, and the bull, almost touching, lay dying on the 
ground, its mighty head beating repeatedly in its death agony 
against the hard red soil of the velt. . . . As quickly as 
possible I reloaded, and with three final shots made an end 
of both animals. ... It was indeed a very narrow escape. 
It left an impression on my mind which Avill not be easily 
erased. Even now in fancy I sometimes live those moments 
over again." 

The volume contains a sympathetic introduction by 
Sir H. H. Johnston, who is another mighty hunter 
of African beasts. It seems rather odd and incon- 
gruous that both the author and the introductory 
writer should lament the wanton extermination of 
African big game by sportsmen, when one sees the 
pictures in the volume and notes the large nvunber 
of animals killed by the hunters of this expedition. 
Science probably demands as many dead animals as 
the sportsman, but it can cloak its butchery under a 
more legitimate garb. 

" A Yankee in Pigmy Land," by William Edgar 
Getl, is also a book on Africa, telling the story of a 
journey across that country from Mombasa on the 
eastern coast to Banana on the western coast. That 
part of the volimie dealing with the eastern section 
contains but little new matter. The author describes 
the Uganda region, dwelling largely on the mission- 
ary problems, the atrocities of Congo land, the sleep- 
ing sickness (a sort of living death), and gives some 
hunting tales. But the real value of his journey lies 
in bis account of the home and habits of the little 
brown Tom Thumbs of the great Pigmy Forest. ISlr. 
GeU evidently found the real Pigmies, and not the 
Dwarfs who are often confused with their more inter- 
esting countrymen. " Their average height," says 
Mr. Geil, " is forty-eight inches. The Pigmies have 
well-developed eyebrows, while other black people 
have almost no eyebrows. I said ' black ' people, but 
I have seen very few black people in Africa. The 
Pigmies are not black ; they are brown with black 
hair, and all that I have seen have been well devel- 
oped on the chest." These little freaks of humanity 
have some extraordinary qualities, not least among 
them being the engaging sense of fun. 

" Not in all Africa have I heard so much fun. This is the 
Xand of Laughter. This Is the Forest of Fun. The natives 



I have met since crossing the line into Congo have been sober- 
faced ; there has been little cheerfulness and no merriment, 
but these freedom-loving Pigmies, the freest people on earth, 
are to this vast woodland and its human population what the 
blithe Shans are to the grave Chinese who live in the far West 
of the Celestial Empire. The mysterious fun was not momen- 
tary, but continuous. The Pigmies like to have a good time, 
and thev have it. They are the merriest people in the Shade- 
land." 

We fear, however, that Mr. Geil's own sense of 
hmnor is blunt — we dislike to say that he is con- 
ceited, — for among his hundred and more excellent 
photographic reproductions is one of himself, labelled 
" the greatest living traveller." Other pictures show 
him as the central figure with his name in large 
letters on his portmanteau. One photograph depicts 
him plapng the legendary William Tell in the act 
of shooting a banana off a native's head ! 

Mr. L. March Phillips, in his book entitled " In 
the Desert," is concerned with two somewhat unre- 
lated topics : the French scheme of colonization for 
Algiers, and the influence of the Sahara desert on 
Arab life, architecture, religion, poetry, and philos- 
ophy. The present strained relation between France 
and Germany concerning affairs in North Africa 
makes the first topic of timely interest. The author 
justifies the French in their scheme of colonizing 
the desert, and asserts that " every move in France's 
policy during the last fifteen or twenty years has 
been opportune." Her colonists, "possessing the 
soil they cultivate, overspread the land ; industries, 
public works, improvements, are pushed forward 
with vigor and intelligence." In his thesis that the 
Arab character is the outcome of the influence of 
the desert, ISIr. Phillips g^ves us a sketch of the effect 
of the desert life on himself, and applies his expe- 
rience to that of the Arab. 

" What I came to feel more and more strongly as time went 
on was the extraordinarily stimulating and exciting effect of 
the desert and the desert climate on the one hand, and its 
entire lack of anything substantial and definite to think about 
and feed the mind with, on the other. . . . So, I used to 
think, the strength and weakness of the Arab were alike dis- 
played in the desert. All the influences that stimulated his 
nerves and starved his intellect were round one there. In 
his successes — his frantic conquests and frantic art and 
science — is the stored up force of the desert's nervous energy. 
In the decline and disintegration of all his power and all his 
labor is the desert's fatal incoherence." 

If we grant (and we feel that we must do so when 
reading the author's vivid descriptions ) that the desert 
is chai*acterized by spaciousness, deadness, vast monot- 
ony, sterility, and primitiveness, then we can readily 
understand how the empty life of the desert working 
for countless generations has had its consequences in 
Arab character. Such a plausible thesis makes the 
Arab a being who despises odds, who has a fortitude 
that smUes at wounds and death, who is "proud, 
fiercely militant, vengeful, courteous too, and digni- 
fied and generous, but lacking such virtues as pa- 
tience, long suffering, gentleness, modesty, humility, 
seK-sacrifice." Hence, the Arab's poetry is like his 
life — always in the ballad-poetry stage, the poetry of 
action, not of thought ; his religion is the religion of 
the sword ; and his architecture is indefinite and 



234 



THE DIAL 



[AprH 1, 



unsubstantial, serving largely as a vehicle for rich 
colors. Mr. Phillips has thus carried Taine's theory 
to its limits ; and whatever may be its shortcomings 
in this particular instance, the author has made an 
entertaining contribution to our knowledge of Arab 
life and art. 

Enthusiasm, spontaneity, kindly humor, and a 
sprightly style characterize the volume entitled " In 
Further Ardenne " with the auxiliary title " A Study 
of the Grand Duchy of Luxemburg," by the Rever- 
end T. H. Passmore. This tiny principality, pinched 
in between France, Belgium, Prussia, and Lorraine, 
has had a history out of all proportion to its size, 
for it has seen and endured the whole pageant of 
European events. Druid flamen, Celtic war-man, 
Roman lording, feudal baron, and modern diplomat 
have all laid their hands upon it; and yet, so says 
Mr. Passmore, the Grand Duchy of Luxemburg has 
" never for a moment lost its distinctive individu- 
ality." There still survive, untrammeled even by 
the ubiquitous tourist, her romance, folk-song, folk- 
dance, and folk-lore, and it is with these that Mr. 
Passmore is primarily concerned. With him we 
wander in search of the quaint and picturesque — 
two words the author eschews — in this old land, 
" wide and quiet and peaceable." He asks us for 
the merry heart that will go a mile or twain, for " a 
love of unspoilt uncrowded sweet earth-corners, an 
open mind about other people's religious notions, and 
even a capacity to think a little occasionally, in a 
dreamy way." One of the unique sights described 
in the book is the Springprozession, a religious 
dance, of Echternach. This dancing to God's glory, 
the origin of which is lost in disputes, is in part 
described by Mr. Passmore as follows : 

"This Dance of Degrees, the whole with the sick, the old 
with the young, counteracting their own progress and yet 
progressing, sweating yet ascending, faint yet pursuing. . . . 
The burning sun beats on them, the heaven over them is brass, 
now and again one swoons and must fall out ; but the dogged 
escalade goes on. Meanwhile the leaders have danced into 
the church, laid down their offerings, and are wheeling around 
the altar-shrine, swaying still where the Saint lies sleeping. 
When all have passed this way, a solemn Salut crowns the 
day ; which done, the Host-blessed pUgrims issue from the 
church, dancing as ever, to set seal to their vow with triple 
circling round the great sad Christ who hangs upon the 
churchyard cross." 

We had occasion in a former review to speak 
favorably of Mr. Jerome Hart's " Two Argonauts 
in Spain," and we are now pleased to say that we 
are still more highly pleased by the excellent quali- 
ties of the same author's latest book, entitled " A 
Levantine Log Book." Mr. Hart made a stay of two 
seasons in the regions of the Eastern Mediterranean, 
stopping at Naples, Malta, Constantinople, Smyrna, 
Jerusalem, and Egypt. One does not expect much 
that is new concerning these places, so when a trav- 
eller bids for one's commendations on his notebook 
of travels, his view-point must be refreshing and 
individual. These qualities Mr. Hart supplies in 
abimdance. He can and does write intelligently, but 
he excels most in the genial himior that brings a 



smile with almost every page. We wish our space 
permitted us to quote the entire chapter on " The 
Breeks of the Turks," or the diverting chapter enti- 
tled " Spots Where," or the description of Smyrna; 
but we must choose a shorter excerpt which describes 
the entourage of the Sultan when he is returning 
from his devotions at the mosque. 

" Now comes a curious sight. As his horses ascend the hill 
at a quick trot his generals, his pashas, his colonels, and his 
ministers keep pace with his horses. The courtiers are clad 
in scarlet and bullion, in blue and silver, in green and gold ; 
they are gray, grizzled, and old, but they run like so many 
school-boys behind and on either side of the imperial carriage. 
Fortunately the run is not a long one, for many of the pashas 
are fat and scant of breath. But no matter how old or how 
fat, all who are not absolutely disabled run by their master's 
carriage. Obesity is not an exemption; old age is not a 
release. There is no apology but partial paralysis ; no excuse 
but locomotor ataxia. This is perhaps the Oriental courtier's 
way of indicating enthusiastic loyalty. Courtiers have always 
had to do humiliating things, with joyful faces, in monarchies. 
Perhaps they do still — perhaps even in republics. But what 
a fantastic spectacle — a lot of uniformed and elderly digni- 
taries running up hill on a hot day — a troop of perspiring 
and pot-bellied pashas sprinting after their padishah ! " 

In form and illustrations the book is as pleasing to 
the eye as the text is to the mind. 

Whoever has read of the great region lying north 
of India knows that every book dealing with it will 
contain two features : descriptions of the vast, unin- 
habited wastes, of the paralyzing cold of the gla- 
cier regions, and the burning heat of the deserts; 
and, secondly, of the eternal political question as to 
who shall rule the region, England or Russia. Mr. 
Oscar Terry Crosby's volume, "Tibet and Turkestan," 
is no exception. Mr. Crosby's description of the 
countries named is familiar, and his discussion of 
the political aspect is independent. Accompanied 
by Captain Anginieur of the French Army, the 
author made his trip in the latter part of 1903, 
traversing the region from the Caspian Sea through 
Turkestan to the Tibetan Plateau. Such a route 
invites many hardships, and Mr. Crosby tells us the 
difficulties encountered on this journey were " in 
every respect more severe than those experienced in 
a considerable journey in Africa — from Somaliland 
to Khartoum." In one part of their journey they 
travelled for forty days through uninhabited wastes, 
eleven days of that time being spent on the cheer- 
less verge of starvation. The greater part of the 
book deals with the political aspects, especially of 
Tibet. Mr. Crosby sees little to fear in the Yellow 
Peril, evidently believing it to be prompted by diplo- 
matic motives. The religion, the history, and the 
peculiar institution of polyandric marriage of Tibet 
are treated fully and weU. Of England's aggres- 
siveness in Tibet, and Younghusband's raid, Mr. 
Crosby says : 

" The raid into Tibet I believe to have been wild, not capable 
of bearing good fruit. Its occupation is not necessary to the 
preservation of the Empire's peace ; nor would it conduce to 
the Empire's prosperity. Any harm that could possibly come 
out of Tibet could be met, at the moment of its appearance, 
at less moral and material cost than by years of repression 
and injustice based on mere suspicion." 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



235 



The volume contains an almost entire alphabet of 
appendices, one of which gives some interesting ex- 
amples of Tibetan songs. 

" The Great Plateau " is the appropriate title of 
Captain C. G. Rawling's volume which recounts his 
two journeys of exploration into central Tibet made 
in 1903 and 1904-5. " The first expedition," says 
the author, "penetrated into the uninhabited and 
barren regions of the Northern Desert at a time when 
Tibet was rigidly closed to foreigners. The second 
led through the rich, thickly-populated valleys of the 
Brahmaputra, and was made with the cognisance and 
permission of the Lhasa Government, though only 
rendered possible by the notable success of Sir Fran- 
cis Younghusband's mission." The result of the first 
expedition was Captain Rawling's correct mapping 
of 35,000 square miles of hitherto unknown and 
unexplored country. The purpose of the second expe- 
dition was to determine the possibilities of Gartok, 
the capital of western Tibet, as a trade mart, and to 
survey the route so " that proposals for opening other 
marts should be based on accurate information." 
This undertaking, made under all the usual attendant 
difiiculties of travel in that region, resulted in find- 
ing that Gartok was a village of " three good-sized 
houses and twelve miserable hovels " ! Such, how- 
ever, is the scramble for precedence and prestige 
among the industrial and political giants. To those 
who are interested in the development and the geo- 
graphy of Tibet the volume will contain some new 
features, but the general reader will find small profit 
in the book. We are at a loss to account for the 
difference in the literary quality of the two accounts 
of Captain Rawling's journeys. The story of the 
first expedition is a weary tale of countless marches 
and camps, but the account of the Gartok expedition 
has at least the g^ace of vivacity and freshness. 

Mr. A. B. De GuervUle, the author of " New 
Egypt," seems to be one who is able to break through 
the hedges that surround the divinely-appointed 
affairs of many foreign places. In his own words he 
obtained his information about the new Egypt from 
" highly placed personages in the Egyptian world, 
English, French, natives, and others ; these men, 
keen and talented, who in palaces, ministries, lega- 
tions, schools, hospitals, bands, or large industrial 
concerns, are working without ceasing for the regen- 
eration of Egypt. I have knocked at all doors, rich 
and poor, high and low, and everywhere a warm 
welcome has awaited me." We are pleased with the 
frank personality of the author, and we are impressed 
and entertained by his book. Not for a long time 
have we read a book of travel that is so very inter- 
esting and refreshingly instructive. There is nothing 
new in Mr. De Guerville's itinerary ; he took the 
usual trip from Alexandria to Cairo, thence to Luxor, 
Karnac, Assouan, Khartoum, and Fashoda — now 
called Kodok. His account of these places is inter- 
spersed with facts relative to the French in Egypt, 
the pleasures of Cairo, Ismail and his reign, the com- 
mercial and industrial life of the land, and the social. 



religious, and political conditions in this rapidly 
changing country. The Renaissance has apparently 
come to Egypt. For France's share in Eg^ypt's devel- 
opment he has a smile and a tear ; for England's 
protectorate over Egypt and Lord Cromer's wise 
administration he has only words of praise. "JNew 
Egypt " means the industrial prosperity that has fol- 
lowed the flag of England. Even the Sudan, which 
General Gordon described in 1884 as "an abso- 
lutely useless possession, has always been so, and 
always will be so," bids fair to become a garden spot, 
if the plans of irrigation do not fail. We commend 
the book for its valuable information, for its pungent 
style, and for its sprightly gossip about things Egyp- 
tian. We shall await with pleasure the author's 
promised volimae to be entitled " Egypt Intime." 

The raison d'etre — and it is a sufficient reason 
— of Mr. A. H. Hallam Murray's volume called 
" The High-Road of Empire " is the plethora of 
beautiful water-color and pen-and-ink sketches which 
the author-artist made along the highways of the fasci- 
nating lands of India and Ceylon. Such a journey, 
when made in the leisurely manner that the brush 
and pencil demand, through a land that appeals to 
artist and writer alike by "its glorious architecture, 
its unique landscapes, its rich historic associations, 
and above all its strangely interesting people," offers 
much that is unusual, when the writer can make his 
somewhat commonplace experience alive by a re- 
served enthusiasm. This Mr. Murray has done. He 
went from Bombay to Ceylon by the devious way of 
Poona, Bijapur, AUabahad, Calcutta. Benares, Luck- 
now, Cawnpore, to Agra, Delhi, Lahore, and Jodh- 
pur, and whatever struck his fancy he described in 
colors, in line-drawings, or with his pen. As many 
travellers and writers on India have done, Mr. Mur- 
ray dwells at some length on Benares, the wonderful 
city of squalor and beauty, where the heart of old 
India beats most perceptibly in the swarming mass 
of humanity which gathers there at all seasons, to 
dip into and drink of the filthy pools or ghats of the 
Ganges, the mother of life. 

" The river bank is a marvellous sight. The Ghats, in 
flight after flight of irregular steps, descend a hundred feet 
to the water's edge. Here and there the steps widen out into 
terraces, and on them are temples and shrines of all sorts and 
sizes. The clifiP is crowned by high houses and palaces, which 
culminate in domes and minarets. Here and there a palace 
or temple breaks away from the main line, and projecting 
forward, descends with solid breastworks of masonry to the 
water's edge, where every variety of native craft lies moored." 

Such a scene catches the artist's eye and demands 
a clever brush; but the following human touch is 
beyond the artist's skiU, and requires only a little 
less skill in the handling of words : 

" I was charmed by one scene in particular which we 
watched. Two graceful women in bright-coloured silk saris 
came down the steps, each carrying on her arm a folded sari 
of a different hue. Leaving this on the brink, they stepped 
down as they were into the sacred water and drank and 
dipped. Coming back to the steps in wet garments, they 
wound them off, and simultaneously, by the same mysterious 
movement, clothed themselves in the fresh silk drapery with 
which they had come provided. The process of transf orma- 



236 



THE DIAL 



[April 1, 



tion was as elusive and complete as that by which a snow- 
capped mountain is changed at the afterglow. Then taking 
the strip of wet drapery, and deftly gathering it in narrow 
folds crosswise in either hand, they went back to their daily 
occupations." 

Many such little descriptive sketches enhance the 
interest and value of Mr. MuiTay's sumptuous vol- 
ume, which contains over forty excellent illustrations 
reproduced by the three-color process, and about one 
hundred pen-and-ink sketches. The publishers are 
to be praised for their part in the production of a 
book that is unusually pleasing in every detail. 

H. E. COBLENTZ. 



Briefs on New Books. 



A charming ^^ '^^ ^^ extremely vivacious and in- 
French hostess teresting throng of men and women 
and her circle. ^\^^ passes before us in the pages 
of Miss Janet Aldis's "Madame Geoffrin and her 
Salon " (Putnam). The author is an amiable and com- 
municative cicerone, and as we run on lightly from 
chapter to chapter of her gossipy account we feel 
somewhat as one might, who, ignorant of the lan- 
guage of the animated talkers, should by some 
magic be privileged to be present, invisible, at those 
eighteenth centm-y dinners. Our guide points out 
the hostess or names the various guests, with an 
anecdote or a story that engages our interest and 
makes us feel in a manner acquainted with each. 
This silent and somewhat superfluous old man is 
the hostess's husband, whom death will soon dis- 
creetly remove. Here is d'Alembert, legitimate 
child of his century, if not of other parents ; there 
is FonteneUe, who has lived out nearly a fuU cen- 
tury and is yet not the least gay and witty of the 
company. This is Denis Diderot, unkempt and 
uncourtly, but original and full of matter ; that is 
Grimm, snapping up every bit of literary gossip, and 
not always stopping at that kind, for his next letter 
to "a sovereign of Germany." And as we observe 
the company our guide explains from time to time 
the jest that has just raised the laugh, the paradox 
that has provoked such eager challenge and discus- 
sion, or the clever tale that has been crowned with 
such general applause. We feel that these are 
interesting people, and that we should like to know 
them better, and that if we knew their language and 
could follow their talk we should get a really inform- 
ing glimpse into that bubbling cauldron in which 
the witches' broth of the revolution was brewing. 
And this remains our feeling when we leave them. 
We have not been taught their language ; we have 
not penetrated into the intimacy of their deeper 
purposes and more serious convictions; and the pic- 
ture, for all its appearance of life, makes somewhat 
the impression of a composite photogi-aph. A great 
many salons, a great many groups of persons, shift- 
ing from year to year, have contributed to it. We 
are made but vaguely aware of the passing of time 
by the touches it leaves on one or another of the 



faces. We get no adequate suggestion of the rapid 
movement of ideas and events between the years 
1750 and 1777 which bound the period of Madame 
Geoff rin's reign. But perhaps these shortcomings 
are the necessary defects of the book's good quali- 
ties, and we readily allow that the latter are quite 
sufficient to commend it. It was worth whUe to 
give this glimpse of a very remarkable woman and 
the very remarkable circle that she gathered about 
her, and to persuade us that the guests at Madame 
Geoffrin's table were charming and interesting 
people, removed as far as possible from dulness, 
dryness, and pedantry, and well worth our better 
acquaintance. 

The course of Lowell Institute lee- 
^infaZs. t^res to which Professor George E. 
Woodberry has given " The Torch " 
for a collective title (McClure) is based upon a 
highly abstract and metaphysical conception. The 
opening sentences state the author's fundamental 
thesis. 

"It belongs to a highly developed race to become, in a 
true sense, aristocratic — a treasury of its best in practical 
and spiritual types, and then to disappear in the surrounding 
tides of men. So Athens dissolved like a pearl in the cup of 
the Mediterranean, and Rome in the cup of Europe, and Judea 
in the cup of the Universal Communion. Though death is 
the law of all life, man touches this earthen fact with the 
wand of his spirit, and transforms it into the law of sacrifice. 
Man has won no victory over his environment so sublime as 
this, finding in his mortal sentence the true choice of the soul 
and in the road out of Paradise the open highway of eternal 
life." 

A work thus solemnly preluded is sxire to prove in- 
tensely serious of character, and the high note of 
idealism thus sounded at the outset is maintained 
to the last. The first lecture expounds in the most 
general terms this doctrine of the race-mind, with 
literature for its organ, which persists while race 
after race passes away. The second lectui-e deals 
more specifically with literature as " the language of 
all the world " rather than as the language of this or 
that people. " History is mortal : it dies. Yet it does 
not altogether die. Elements, features, fragments of 
it survive, and enter into the eternal memory of the 
race, and are there transformed, and — as we say — 
spiritualized. Literature is the abiding-place of this 
transforming power, and most profits by it." The 
two lectures following are upon " The Titan-Myth," 
and complete the unfolding of the author's funda- 
mental thought. Then follow four lectures dealing 
specifically with Spenser, Milton, Wordsworth, and 
Shelley, each of whom is considered as a special ex- 
ponent of the racial inheritance of spiritual energy. 
Perhaps the essence of Mr. Woodberry's teaching 
is to be found in these earnest words : 

" Honesty is nowhere more essential than in literary study ; 
hypocrisy, there, may have terrible penalties, not merely in 
foolishness, but in misfortune ; and to lie to oneself about 
oneself is the most fatal lie. The stages of life must be taken 
in their order ; but finally you will discover the blessed fact 
that the world of literature is one of diminishing books — 
since the greater are found to contain the less, for which 
reason time itself sifts the relics of the past and leaves at last 
only a Homer for centuries of early Greece, a Dante for his 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



237 



entire age, a Milton for a whole system of thought. To 
understand and appreciate such g^reat writers is the goal; 
but the way is by making honest use of the authors that ap- 
peal to us in the most living ways." 



Wanderings There are those who assert that oar 
on the WeUh Word " saimtcrer " is derived from 
borderland. u g^jjg terre," — without home or coun- 

try; while others hold that it comes from "Sainte 
Terrer," the pious pUgrim or a "' holy lander." To 
all who have cultivated the art of sauntering and 
have practised it in some district of Great Britain 
where the natural scenery is attractive and where 
the mind is kept occupied without being excited, and 
have found sauntering the finest of all tonics, mental, 
physical, or spiritual, the preference is for the latter 
derivation, whatever the etymologists may decide. 
And from the nmnber of recent books descriptive of 
leisurely journeys through various districts in Great 
Britain, rich in historic interest and antiquarian 
lore as well as in natural scenerj', the membership in 
the guild of saimterers is by no means decreasing. 
Mr. A. G. Bradley is an accomplished saunterer. 
He knows the Lake District and North and South 
Wales by personal leisurely inspection, and has writ- 
ten several books about those regions. The latest 
record of his wanderings is a volume entitled •' In 
the March and Borderland of Wales " ( Houghton, 
Mifflin & Co.). Mr. Bradley is at some pains to 
defend the apparent tautology of his title, " march " 
meaning border or frontier ; and he describes jour- 
neys in Herefordshire and Monmouthshire in En- 
gland, and Montgoraerj'shire and Glamorganshire 
in Wales, and into districts on both sides of the pres- 
ent boundary of Wales which were once the scenes 
of exploits of Owen Glyndwr, a Welsh patriot of the 
fifteenth centurj- whose life Mr. Bradley has dealt 
with in a previous volume. The author's descriptions 
and the sketches of his artist companion, Mr. W. M. 
Meredith, must excite in all readers of the volume 
an interest in this portion of the Welsh borderland 
that will be g^tified with nothing less than a visit 
to Hereford and its vicinity. 



The author of ^^ Thomas Browne was one of the 
"Reiigio men who lived apart in the troublous 

ifedict." times of the Commonwealth, who 

allowed himself to be as little disturbed by the civil 
dissensions of Roimdheads and Cavaliers as he was 
untouched by the excesses of the Restoration. He 
dwelt quietly at Norwich, practising his profession 
and investigating vulgar errors, interesting himself 
in sepulchral urns, and enquiring into his religious 
views as a physician. Mr. Gosse in his recent volume 
in the •• English Men of Lettere " series (MacmUlan) 
once more brings out what has already been remarked 
by others, that Browne has not contributed anything 
of importance to medical science or to philosophical 
or religious thought. It is to his genius as a stylist 
that Mr. Gosse attributes his rank among the great 
writers of English. And even here he is not beyond 
adverse criticism, for so thoroughly was he drenched 



in Latin that he carried over almost bodily words 
that have only their Latin parentage to speak for 
them. Many of them f aUed of adoption and are to-day 
but " wild enormities " of misdirected scholarship. 
Where Mr. Gosse fails in his estimate is in not suffi- 
ciently recognizing the essentially poetic quality of 
Browne's work, apart from mere form or style. He 
does not bring out what Professor Dowden calls the 
two elements of Browne's divinity, — wonder and 
love ; that like a poet his appeal was to the emotions 
and the imagination. This was the body, as it were, 
which was clothed in the magnificent trappings of 
his style ; for the prose of '' Reiigio Medici " and 
of the " Urn-Burial " is almost as splendid as Mil- 
ton's. It was his familiarity with Latin that gave 
him such a conmiand of sonorous prose, just as it did 
the other great prose writers of his age. Mr. Gosse 
does not attempt any analysis of this style, a task he 
might well have undertaken, even if suggestive of 
the text-book. The absence of a bibliography is the 
grievous fault this book shares with the other vol- 
umes of the same series. 



Jottina* of "^ " ™^^y ^f memories " is presented 

a London by Mr. Alexander Innes Shand in his 

joumaiut. u D^y g of the Past " ( Button ) . Bom 

and bred in Scotland, he devoted a dozen years to 
sport, continental travel, and other distractions, and 
then, after a year of law practice in Edinburgh, 
crossed the border and eventually found employment 
as a London journalist, being connected with the 
" Saturday Review," the " Times," and other less 
noted journals, and associating with the literary cele- 
brities of his time. Travel, hunting, fishing, and gas- 
tronomy appear to have shared his affections with 
literature. Of his sixteen chapters, all but one, which 
treats of operations on the stock exchange, contain 
references to the pleasures of the table ; and the third 
chapter, "The Evolution of the Hotel and Restaurant,** 
is verj' largely devoted thereto. The author writes in 
a rapid, readable style, and draws on an ample store of 
personal experience in many lands, although his ad- 
ventures never approach the thrilling, or even the 
extraordinary. Apart from his two chapters of " Lit- 
erary Recollections," and the one on "Friends of the 
Athenaeum," the book contains little that calls loudly 
for publication. The critical reader will perhaps note 
a curious expression on the very first page, where the 
writer, referring to late improvements in Aberdeen- 
shire, says he remembers " much of the devolution of 
the transformation." Why " devolution" ? Half-way 
through the volume, passing from the Scotch clergy 
to the English army, he writes : " From ministers to 
messes is a sharp transition, but I must own that, as 
the Americans say, there was a time when I had 
more truck with the one than with the other." Are 
we really guilty of this unrefined locution ? It is new 
to the present reviewer. But it is not much worse 
than the expression " cock-arhoop," which the author 
allows himself, with no apologetic quotation marks, 
and with no disclaimer of its native origin. 



238 



THE DIAL 



[April 1, 



"Sanctified a Christianity and Socialism " is the 

common sense " ■•■, .. ..., » • » /> ,. 

on public collective title oi a series ot live dis- 

probiems. courses by Dr. Washington Gladden, 

recently published by Messrs. Eaton & Mains. The 
first essay, which gives the title to the book, deals 
with the teachings of the Sermon on the Mount, — 
those gi'eat principles of personal character that from 
the days of Plato have been acknowledged as fitting 
the individual for the highest social relations. The 
author then passes to the consideration of human 
brotherhood involved in the words " Our Father who 
art in heaven," contrasting this with the concept of 
industrial society. It may perhaps be questioned 
whether the economic concept is fairly stated ; its 
highest attainment has not yet been reached and the 
more economic society becomes, the more the crying 
wrongs of society are eliminated. The following 
chapter on " Labor Wars " is good Christianity and 
good economics; while "The Programme of Social- 
ism," the third discourse, is a clear exposition of 
socialistic principles, both established and debated. 
The purpose to exalt the idea of compromise be- 
tween the opposing tendencies is both worthy and 
characteristic of the eminent clerical author. Per- 
haps the best thing is the passage — too long for 
quotation — showing that socialism and atheism are 
in no way connected. The chapter on "True Social- 
ism " gives the noble ideal of regarding work, what- 
ever its nature or rank, as a social function. The 
final pages, on " Municipal Reform," contain a rapid 
sketch of what has recently been done and what 
remains to do, sounding for all citizens the earnest 
warning to put intelligence, honesty, and unselfish- 
ness into the City Hall if their fruits in city govern- 
ment are to be expected. Like all Dr. Gladden's 
utterances, these discourses are characterized by what 
has been well termed " sanctified common sense " and 
are thoroughly stimidating and suggestive. 



Seashore 
life on the 
eastern coast. 



The first number of the New York 
Aquarium Series (Barnes) is a vol- 
ume on "Sea-shore Life" by Dr. 
Alfred G. Mayer, Director of the Marine Biological 
Laboratory of the Carnegie Institution at Tortugas, 
Florida, and is devoted to the invertebrates of the 
New York coast and the adjacent coast region. 
The work is intended for readers who have had no 
technical biological training, and its aim is to "in- 
crease intelligent interest in the habits and life- 
histories of marine animals and to disseminate a 
knowledge of their appearance and relationship." 
The author makes a serious attempt to coin new 
vernacular names for animals to which only a Latin 
binomial has been hitherto attached, after the cus- 
tom of English naturalists. The work has an edu- 
cational value in connection with the aquarium in 
New York and the museum collections there and in 
other cities, and has added interest from the natural 
history contained in its pages and the many original 
illustrations. Many references to pertinent litera- 
ture are scattered throughout the text, and biblio- 



graphical references pertaining to the more impor- 
tant species are given at the end of the volume. 
Specialists may quarrel with some cases in the 
author's nomenclature or seek more light on some 
of his statements, but all will agree that the book is 
a welcome addition to the literature of the sea^ 
shore. 

A glimpse of ^^^, popular evening lectures of the 
the ancient Christmas holidays before the Royal 

animal world. Institution of London have been a 
fruitful source of excellent books dealing with some 
phases of scientific learning brought up to date, and 
freed of technical terminology and abstruse reason- 
ing. One of the most readable and timely of these 
contributions to popular science is Professor E. Ray 
Lankester's " Extinct Animals " (Holt), which the 
author regards as nothing more ambitious than an 
attempt to excite in young people an interest in a 
most fascinating study, that of the animals of past 
ages. The book is cast in conversational form, enliv- 
ened by anecdote and illumined by over two hun- 
dred excellent illustrations, some of them original, 
and many of them now seen for the first time outside 
of technical publications. The proportion of time- 
honored cuts is very small, and the figures are well 
chosen. The relations of these animals of the past 
to the living world are frequently emphasized, and 
the ways in which fossils are formed are clearly 
shown. We find here the story of the evolution of 
the elephant, brought to light in recent years by 
palaeontological explorations in Egypt, which in sci- 
entific interest bids fair to outrank the well-known 
evolution of the horse made famous by Huxley. The 
work is authoritative, quite up to date, and on the 
whole one of the best popular accounts of the life of 
the ancient world in print. 



Nature essays 
and pictures. 



" The Prairie and the Sea " is some- 
what of a misnomer for the collection 
of miscellaneous outdoor sketches by 
Mr. William A. Quayle, which are published, in a 
volume embellished with a wealth of photographic 
reproductions, by Messrs. Jennings & Graham. The 
half-dozen photographers who have collaborated with 
Mr. Quayle have done thoroughly artistic work in 
picturing both the smaller and the larger aspects of 
the world about which he writes. Mr. Quayle's point 
of view is the rather hackneyed one of the nature- 
lover who, having been born a country-boy, knows a 
good deal about the out-door world, and, having 
grown up a sentimentalist, is full of quaint conceits 
and fancies about it. He does not go far enough in 
the sober study of natural history to enrich his work, 
after the fashion of Mr. Bradford Torrey, with 
unique discoveries in the realms of plant and animal 
life. His enthusiasm for the beauties of nature seems 
therefore at times a little empty, and his literary 
style lacks the grace and piquancy needed to carry 
off a difficult situation perfectly. However, this is 
only saying that his work belongs to the gi'eat average 
output of nature essays — not striking, but thor- 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



239 



oughly readable on the whole, and, together with the 
accompan)T.ng pictures, making up an attractive 
volume intended for the large class of readers who 
do not want their nature-study to be of a very special 
or a very exacting tj'pe. 

Gfti Sherman "^ biography of interest and charm is 
truthfully Mr. Edward Robins's life of Wil- 

portrayed. ^iaja T, Sherman in the series of 

"American Crisis Biographies" (Jacobs). Much 
of this interest and charm comes from the character 
of the subject, the irascible, outspoken, independent 
soldier, and his imique and exciting career ; but 
much comes also from the skilful work of the author. 
He has made an excellent portrait of the great soldier, 
giving the shadows as well as the lights. He makes 
the reader see the vindictiveness of Greneral Shemuui, 
his prejudices, and the lack of tact that made him 
numberless enemies for a time ; but he makes us see, 
too, the essential greatness of the man as weU as the 
soldier, a character that finally conquered hostility 
at the South as well as at the North, and the singular 
attractiveness of his essentially fine spirit and bril- 
liant mind. The book is an excellent outline history 
of those campaigns of the Civil War in the West and 
South in which General Sherman took part, espe- 
cially of the world-famed march through Greorgia. 



BRIEFER MENTION. 



" American Historv in Literature," by Misses Martha 
A. L. Lane and Mabel HUl, is a compUation of " simple 
literary excerpts which illustrate the leading events and 
the characteristic conditions that have marked the devel- 
opment of the United States." A second volume for the 
use of higher grades is in course of preparation. Messrs. 
Ginn & Co. are the publishers. 

From the Archseological Institute of America we have 
Volume I. of " Supplementary Papers of the American 
.School of Classical Studies in Rome." The papers are 
nine in number, the work of eight authors, working some- 
times jointly and sometimes alone. Plates large and 
smaU, besides diagrams and maps, constitute the illus- 
trations, which are offered in abimdance. The papers are 
of minute scholarly interest.generally speaking, although 
something different from this should be said of Dr. 
Arthur Mahler's "Die Aphrodite von Arles,"Dr. Richard 
Norton's "Report on Archieolog^cal Remains in Tur- 
kestan," and possibly one or two others. The volume 
is a handsome quarto published by the Macmillan Co. 

If there was ever a labor of love, it was that of Dr. 
S. Weir Mitchell in translating into modem verse the 
fourteenth-century ^Middle English poem called " Pearl." 
This wonderful lyric, almost imknown for half a millen- 
nium, attracted the attention of lovers of poetry in the 
nineteenth century, and many, from Tennyson down, 
have since written in its praise. Dr. Mitchell gives us 
rather less than half of the entire work, accounting for 
this mutilation by saying that the omitted stanzas " deal 
with uninteresting theological or allegorical material." 
We could wish that he had given us the whole poem, but 
this need not preclude our thanks for his very ehamung 
version of the portions that he thought worthy of transla- 
tion. The Century Co. publish the httle volume. 



XOTES. 



« Days with Walt Whitman," by Mr. Edward Carpen- 
ter, one of the poet's intimate friends, is announced for 
early issue by the Macmillan Co. 

" Walt Whitman and the Germans," by Dr. Richard 
Riethmueller, is a pamphlet publication of the Amer- 
icana Germanica Press, Philadelphia. 

Spenser's " Faerie Queene," in two volumes, is a 
charming recent addition to the " Caxton Thin Paper 
Classics," imported by the Messrs. Scribner. 

" The International Position of Japan as a Great 
Power," by Dr. Seiji G. Hishida, is an important recent 
addition to the Columbia University publications. 

A little book on James McNeill Whistler, by Mr. 
H. W. Singer, is imported by the Messrs. Scribner as an 
issue in the " Langham Series of Art Monographs." 

" Foster's Complete Bridge," by Mr. R. F. Foster, is 
the latest of the author's many manuals for card-players, 
and is published by Messrs. McClure, Phillips & Co. 

Mr. Russell Sturgis is at work upon an exhaustive 
" History of Architecture," which the Baker & Taylor 
Co. will publish in three large volumes. Volume I. will 
be ready next October, and the two others will follow 
at intervals of about six months. 

An edition of Mill on " The Subjection of Women," 
edited by Dr. Stanton Coit, is published by Messrs. 
Longmans, Green, & Co. The editorial material pro- 
vides an analysis of Mill's argument, and an account of 
changes in the legal status of women since the original 
publication of the essay. 

" Chopin, as Revealed by Extracts from his Diary," 
by Count Stanislas Tamowski, translated from the 
Polish by Miss Natalie Janotha, is a recent importation 
of the Messrs. Scribner, from whom we also have an 
essay by Mr. Joseph Groddard on " The Deeper Sotirces 
of the Beauty and Expression of Music." 

A " Standard Webster Pocket Dictionary," compiled 
by Mr. Alfred B. Chambers, has been added by Messrs. 
Laird & Lee to their series of lexicons. Concise defini- 
tions of some thirty thousand words are given, and 
there is an appendix containing sixteen colored maps, 
besides a variety of miscellaneous information. 

An important work on " Consumption and its Rela- 
tion to Man and his Civilization," by Dr. John Bessner 
Ruber, is announced by the J. B. Lippincott Co. In 
writing this volume it has been Dr. Huber's purpose to 
supply a comprehensive exposition of the effect con- 
sumption has had upon civilization, and a consideration 
of its relation to human affairs. 

To their attractive series of "Popular Editions of 
Recent Fiction" Messrs. Little, Brown, & Co. have 
added the following volumes: "Painted Shadows," by 
Richard Le Gallienne ; " The Viking's Skull," by John 
R. Carling; "Sarah Tuldon," by Orme Agnus; "The 
Siege of Youth," by Frances Charles; "Hassan, a 
Fellah," by Henry GiUman; and "The Wolverine," by 
Albert L. Lawrence. 

Of foremost interest in " The Burlington Magazine ** 
for March may be mentioned the following articles: 
" Independent Art of To-day " by Bemhard Sickert, 
"Charles II. Plate in Belvoir Castle" by J. Starkie 
Gardner, " Some Lead Garden Statues " by Lawrence 
Weaver, and " Who Was the Architect of the Houses 
of Parliament ? " by Robert Dell. The frontispiece in 
this issue is a fine photogravure reproduction of a 16th 
century Italian bronze. 



240 



THE DlAl^ 



[April 1, 



A little book on Sir Henry Irving, by Mr. Haldane 
Macfall, described as "a comprehensive view of the 
man and his accomplishments," will be published early 
this month by Messrs. John W. Luce & Co. Sixteen 
illustrations have been supplied by Mr. Gordon Craig, 
the son of Ellen Terry, to whom the book is dedicated. 
In this connection we may note that Mr. Mortimer 
Menpes and his daughter are preparing a " portrait bio- 
graphy " of Irving, with illustrations in color, which the 
MacmUlan Co. are to publish some time during the year. 

" The only complete copyright text in one volume " of 
the poetical works of Byron comes to us from Messrs. 
Charles Scribner's Sons. It contains the gist of the edi- 
torial matter in Mr. Ernest Hartley Coleridge's defini- 
tive seven-volume edition of the poems, completed a 
year or two ago, and will thus prove a boon to those 
who could not avail themselves of the earlier work. An 
introductory memoir of some fifty pages is supplied to 
the present volume by Mr. Coleridge, and there is a 
frontispiece portrait in photogravure. The type is neces- 
sarily small, though not mireadable. 

At the request of Professor Bernhard Seuffert, of 
Graz, Austria, representing the Royal Prussian Academy 
of Berlin, all institutions or individuals having Wieland 
manuscripts or letters are earnestly urged to give notice 
of the fact and thus materially further the very elaborate 
edition of Wieland's complete works, translations, and 
letters now being prepared by the Academy. A similar 
appeal is also made in regard to material for the great 
edition of Goethe proceeding from the Goethe-Schiller- 
Archiv in Weimar. Any information as to these matters 
may be sent to Mr. Leonard L. Mackall, at Johns Hop- 
kins University, Baltimore. 

The Syndics of the Cambridge University Press have 
arranged to publish a comprehensive History of English 
Literature on a scale and plan more or less resembling 
that of the " Cambridge Modern History." The work 
will be published in about twelve royal octavo volumes 
of some 400 pages each, and will cover the whole course 
of English literature from Beowulf to the end of the 
Victorian Age. The action of foreign influences and the 
part taken by secondary writers in successive literary 
movements will receive a larger share of attention than 
is possible in shorter histories, in which lesser writers are 
apt to be overshadowed by a few great names. Each vol- 
ume will contain a sufficient bibliography. The " Cam- 
bridge History of English Literature " will be edited by 
Dr. A. W. Ward, Master of Peterhouse, and Mr. A. R. 
Waller. 

Besides the editions of " Paul et Virginie" and Mr. 
Aldrich's " Songs and Sonnets," already mentioned in 
these pages, the publishers of the "Riverside Press 
Editions" have under way several enterprises of unusual 
interest. Among these undertakings are a translation 
of Bernard's life of the great French designer and 
engraver, Geofroy Tory, richly illustrated with draw- 
ings, designs, etc.; an edition of an exceptionally fine 
English prose version of the French epic, " The Song of 
Roland," to be printed on a tall folio page, in a French 
Gothic type, embellished with reproductions in color of 
the Charlemagne window in the cathedral at Chartres; 
and an edition of Dante's Divina Commedia, in one vol- 
ume, folio, containing, on opposite pages, both the com- 
plete Italian text and Professor Charles Eliot Norton's 
notable prose translation, illustrated from Botticelli's 
rare and beautiful designs for the poem. More extended 
announcements concerning these works will be made 
later in the year. 



Topics in Leadevg Periodicals. 

April, 1906. 

Adolescence, Facts and Problems of . J.R.Angell. . Wovld To-day 

American Manufacturer in China, The World To-day 

American Music, Movementfor. LawrenceGilmaniiet;. o/i2ev«. 

American Nile, The. G. Gordon Copp Harper 

Ancient America, Mystery of. Broughton Brandenburg ^ppiefon 

Anthony, Susan B. Ida Hasted Harper No. American 

Anthony, Susan B. Ida Hasted Harper Rev. of Revs. 

Arizona's Opposition to Union with New Mexico.. World To-day 
Australia, What People Read in. Henry Stead. . . Rev. of Revs. 

Automobile, Birth of an. Sigmand Kraasz World To-day 

Bank Depositors and Bank Money WorWs Work 

" Big Three " Companies, Changes in. " Q. P.". . World's Work 
" Big Three," Fight for the. Thomas W. Lawson. .Everybody's 

Blabber Hunters, The — I. Clifford W. Ashley Harper 

Borglum, Gutzon, Painter and Sculptor. Leila Mechlin. . Studio 
Canada's Tariff Mood toward the United States . .No. American 

Capri, the Sirens' Island. Edith H. Andrews World To-day 

Caribou and his Kindred. E. Thompson Seton Scribner 

Chemistry and the World's Food. Robert K. Duncan, .i/arper 

Chicago Artists, Recent Exhibition of Studio 

Chinese Situation, The. T. Y. Chang Rev. of Revs. 

Church Music, Reform in. Justine Ward Atlantic 

Churches, Gathering of the. Eugene Wood Everybody's 

Coal Trust, Labor Trust, and the People Who Pay. .Everybody's 

Colorado River Delta. C. J. Blanchard Rev. of Revs. 

Consular Reform. C. Arthur Williams World To-day 

Cooper, James Fenimore. W. C. Brownell Scribner 

Criminal Law Reform. George W. Alger Atlantic 

Dickens in Switzerland. Deshler Welch Harper 

Diet Delusions, Some. Woods Hutchinson McClure 

Earth, Age of Our. C. Rollin Keyes Rev. of Revs. 

Education, — Making it Hit the Mark. W.G. Parsons. .Atlantic 
Enclosed Garden, A Plea for the. Susan S. ^dAnv/right Atlantic 

English Washington Country, The. W. D. Howells Harper 

Evans Collection of Paintings. Leila Mechlin Appleton ' 

Food Science and Pure Food Question Rev. of Revs. 

Gamesters of the Wilderness. Agnes C. Laut Hai'per 

Haden, Sir Francis Seymour, P.R.E. W. B. Boulton. . Scribner 
Hotel de la Rochefoucauld-Doudeauville. C.Gronkowski Century 
Immigration — How it is Stimulated. F. A. Ogg. . World To-day 

Immortality, Recent Speculations upon No. American 

Individualism versus Socialism. William J. Bryan Century 

Johnson, Tom. David Graham Phillips Appleton 

Levy-Dhurmer, L., French Pastelist. Frances Keyser. . . Studio 

Life Insurance as a Profession. Leroy Scott World's Work 

Life Insurance Legislation. Paul Morton, D.P.Kingsley. iVb.^m. 

Lindsey, Judge, and his Work. Helen Grey World To-day 

Lodge, The. Charles Moreau Harger Atlantic 

Markets and Misery. Upton Sinclair No. American 

Meunier, Constantin, Sculptor. Christian Brinton Century 

Mexican Investment, Our. Edward M. Conley Appleton 

Niagara, International Aid for. R. S. Lanier Rev. of Revs. 

Panama, Truth about. H. C. Rowland Appleton 

Pan-American Railway, The. C. M. Pepper Scribner 

Pedantic Usage. Thomas R. Lounsbury Harper 

Philadelphia. Henry James No. American 

Play, A Hunt for a. Clara Morris McClure 

President, For. A Jeffersonian Democrat No. American 

Public Documents, Disposition of. W. S. Rossiter Atlantic 

Public Library, The Modem. Hamilton BeU Appleton 

Public Squares. Sylvester Baxter Century 

Railroad Rates and Foreign Trade. F. A. Ogg Rev. of Revs. 

Railroad Securities as an Investment. A. D. If oyes... Atlantic 

Religion, Testimony of Biology to. C. W. Saleeby Atlantic 

Riches, Great. Charles W. Eliot World's Work 

Rothschild Artisan Dwellings in Paris. Henri Frantz. . . Studio 

Russian Revolution — Is it Constructive? Rev. of Revs. 

Senate's Share in Treaty-Making. A. O. Bacon. .No. American 

Sketching from Nature. Alfred East Studio 

Socialist Party, The. Upton Sinclair World's Work 

Spencer, Herbert, Home Life with Harper 

Stage Humor, Notes on. Brander Matthews Appleton 

Switzerland, Public Affairs in. Charles E. Russell . . Everybody 's 

Tariff , Single or Dual ? James T. McCleary Rev. of Revs. 

Telharmonium, The. T. C. Martin Rev. of Revs. 

Theater in France To-day. Cora R. Howland. . . World To-day 

Thirty-Ninth Congress, The. William G. Brown Atlantic 

Tide-Rivers. Lucy Scarborough Conant A tlantic 

Tolstoy as Prophet. Vernon Lee JVb. Am,erican 

Tuskegee. Booker T. Washington No. American 

Tuskegee, 25 Years of. Booker T. Washington. . World's Work 

Venice, Waters of. Arthur Symons Scribner 

Waterloo, A Week at. Lady De Lancey Century 

Witte, Count De. Perceval Gibbon McClure 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



241 



liiST OF Xeav Books. 

[The following list, containing 92 titles, includes bocks 
received by The Dial since its last issue.^ 

BIOGILAFHir AKD SEKINISCENCES. 

HftwrniiAn 'Yesterdays : Chapters from a Boy's Life in the 
Islands in the Early Days. By Henry M. Lyman, M.D. Illas., 
8vo. gilt top, uncut, pp. 281. A. C. McClurg & Co. |2. net. 

A Memoir of Jacques Cartier, Sienr de Limoilon ; his Voy- 
ages to the St. Lawrence ; a Bibliography and a facsimile of 
the manuscript of 1534, with annotations, etc. By James 
Phinney Baxter, A.M. Illus., large 8vo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 464. 
Dodd, Mead & Co. $10. net. 

The True Andrew Jackson. By Cyrus Townsend Brady, 
nius.. 8vo, gUt top. pp. 504. J. B. Lippincott Co. fc. net. 

The Liife of John Wesley. By C. T. Winchester. With por- 
traits, Svo. gilt top, pp. 301. Macmillan Co. $1.50 net. 

Sir Walter Scott. By Andrew Lang, nius., 12mo, pp. 215. 
" Literary Lives." Charles Scribner's Sons. $1. net. 

HISTOBY. 
The Declaration of Independence : Its History. By John 

H. Hazelton. nius., 4to. gilt top, pp. 629. Dodd, Mead & Co. 

$1.50 net. 
Lectures on £arly English History. By William Stubbs ; 

edited by Arthur Hassell. Large Svo, pp. 391. Longmans, 

Green, & Co. $4. net. 
The Fight for Canada : A Sketch from the History of the 

Great Imperial War. By William Wood. Ulus., large Svo, 

gilt top. pp. 370. Little, Brown, & Co. $2.50 net. 
Americans of 1776. By James Schouler. Svo.gilt top. pp.317. 

Dodd, Mead & Co. |2. net. 
A History of the Parish of Trinity Church in the City 

of New York. Edited by Morgan Dix. Part TV.. The Close 

of the Rectorship of Dr. Hobart and the Rectorship of Dr. 

Berrian. lUus. in photogravure, 4to, gilt top, pp. 595. O. P. 

Putnam's Sons. $5. net. 
Greece, from the Coming of the Hellenes to A.D. 14. By E. S. 

Shuckburgh. Illus., 12mo, pp. 416. " The Story of the Na- 
tions." G. P. Putnam's Sons. #1.35 net. 

GENESAL. lilTEBATTTBE. 
Euripides and the Spirit of his Dramas. By Paul De- 

charme ; trans, by James Loeb. With frontispiece, large Svo, 

uncut, pp. 391. Macmillan Co. |3. net. 
The Liaunching of a University, and Other Papers: A Sheaf 

of Remembrances. By Daniel Coit GUman, LL.D. With 

photogrravTire portrait, Svo. gilt top, pp. 386. Dodd, Mead & 

Co. $2.50 net. 
American Literary Masters. By Leon H. Vincent. 12mo. 

gilt top, pp. 518. Houghton, Mifflin & Co. $2. net. 
The College Man and the College Woman. By William 

De Witt Hyde. 12mo. gilt top. pp. 333. Houghton, Mifflin & 

Co. $1.50 net. 
Studies in Modem German Ldterature. By Otto Heller. 

12mo, gilt top. pp. 301. Ginn & Co. $1.25 net. 
The Legend of St. Juliana. Trans, from the Latin of the 

Acta Sanctorum and the Anglo-Saxon of Cynewulf by Charles 

William Kennedy. 12mo, pp. 60. Princeton : The University 

L ibrary. 
What Men Like in Women. By E. J. Hardy. 12mo, pp. 157. 

G. W. Dillingham Co. $1. net. 

NEW EDITIONS OF STANDABD LITERATXTBE. 

Amaryllis at the Fair. By Richard Jefferies. 12mo, pp. 260. 
E. P. Dutton & Co. $1.50. 

Poems of Italy : Selections from the Odes of Giosue Carducd ; 
trans., with Introduction, by M. W. Arms. Limited edition; 
with phot<^ravure portrait, 16mo, gilt top, pp. 42. The Grafton 
Press. $1. net. 

Pembroke Booklets. First Series. Vol. I., Selections from Sir 
Philip Sidney. Mary Sidney, and Matthew Roydon ; Vol. IL, 
Selections from Thomas Traheme, Thomas Vaughan, and 
John Norris; Vol. HI., Selections from Nicholas Breton, 
George Wither, and William Browne ; Vol. IV. , Selections from 
Suckling, Sir Charles Sedley, and John Wilmot. Each 16mo, 
uncut. Hull, England: J. R. Tutin. Paper. 

Orinda Booklets. Extra Series. Vol. I., Selected Poems of 
Katherine Philips ; Vol. IL, Poems and Songs of Robert Heath ; 
Vol. III., The Tale of Narcissus, by Henry Reynolds ; VoL IV., 
Poems and Songs of Thomas Flatman. Each 16mo, uncut. 
Hull, England: J. R. Tutin. Paper. 



POETSY AND THE DRAMA. 
Hero. By Stephen Phillips. 16mo, gilt top, pp. 200. Macmillan 

Co. $1.25 net. 
The Dynasts : A Drama of the Napoleonic Wars, in Three 

Parts. By Thomas Hardy. Part H., 12mo, gUt top, pp. 302. 

Macmillan Co. $1.50 net. 
The Tree of Knowledg-e. By Mary A. M. Marks. 16mo, uncut, 

pp. 173. London : David Nutt. 
The Title-Mart : A Comedy in Three Acts. By Winston 

Churchill. 16mo. gilt top, pp. 215. Macmillan Co. 75 cts. net. 

FICTION. 
The Genius. By Margaret Potter, l^no, pp. 447. Harper & 

Brothers. ^.50. 
The Dawn of a To-Morrow^. By Frances Hodgson Burnett. 

Ulrxs. in color, 12mo, pp. 156. Charles Scribner's Sons. $1.^. 
Maid of Athens. By Lafayette McLaws. lUus.. 12mo, pp. 286. 

Little. Brown, & Co. $1.50. 
The Triumphs of Eugene Valmont. By Robert Barr. nius., 

12mo, pp. 330. D. Appleton & Co. $1.50. 
The Gtrl from Hm's Place. By Charles Clark Munn. Dins., 

12mo, pp. 426. Lothrop, Lee & Shepard Co. $1.50. 
Alton of Somasco : A Romance of the Great Northwest. By 

Harold Bindloss. nius., 12mo, pp. 355. Frederick A. Stokes 

Co. $1.50. 
The Man from America : A Sentimental Comedy. By Mrs. 

Henry de la Pasture. 12mo, gilt top, pp. 417. E. P. Dutton & 

Co. $1.50. 
Curayl. By Una L. Silberrad. 12mo, pp. 312. Donbleday, Page 

& Co. $1.50. 
CfJled to the Field : A Story of Virginia in the Civil War. By 

Lucy Meacham Tbruston. 12mo, pp. 340. Little, Brown, & 

Co. $1.50. 
The Hill : A Romance of Friendship. By Horace A. VacheU. 

12mo, pp. 325. Dodd, Mead &. Co. $1.50. 
The Scarlet Empire. By David M. Parry, nius. in color, 

12mo. pp. 400. Bobbs-MerriU Co. $1.50. 
The Prisoner of Omith Farm. By Frances Powell. 12mo, 

pp. 315. Charles Scribner's Sons. $1.50. 
Under the Arch. By Lady Henry Somerset. 12mo, gilt top, 

pp. 336. Doubleday. Page & Co. $1.50. 
Hearts and Creeds. By Anna Chapin Ray. Ulus., 12mo, 

pp. 320. Little, Brown, & Co. $1.50. 
A Lame Dog's Diary. By S. Macnaughtan. 12mo, pp. 311. 

Dodd. Mead & Co. $1.50. 
The Lady and the Ladder. By Harrison Garfield Rhodes. 

nius., 12mo, pp. 231. Doubleday, Page & Co. $1.50. 
The Golden Greyhound- By Dwight Tilton. nius., 12mo, 

pp. 366. Lothrop, Lee & Shepard Co. $1.50. 
The Financier. By Harris Bnrland. nius., 12mo, pp. 352. 

G. W. Dillingham Co. $1.50. 
The Snare of Streng-th. By Randolph Bedford. Illns., 12mo, 

pp. 365. Herbert B. Turner & Co. $1.50. 
The Clammer. By William John Hopkins. 16mo, pp. 255. 

Houghton, Mifflin & Co. $1.25. 
The Day-Dreamer : Being the Full Narrative of " The Stolen 

Story." By Jesse Lynch Williams. 12mo, pp. 326. Charles 

Scribner's Sons. $1.25. 
Dick Pentreath. By Katharine Tynan, nius., 12mo. pp. 344. 

A. C. McClurg & Co. $1.25. 
The Conquest of Jerusalem : A Tale of To-Day. By Myriam 

Harry. 12mo, pp. 301. Herbert B. Turner & Co. $1.50. 
Old Washington- By Harriet Prescott Spofford. With fron- 
tispiece, 12mo, pp. 279. Little, Brown, & Co. $1.50. 
Concerning Paul and Flammetta. By L. AUen Harker ; with 

Introduction by Kate Douglas Wiggin. 12mo, pp. 320. Charles 

Scribner's Sons. $1.25. 
Miss Primrose. By Roy Rolfe Gilson. 12mo, pp. 295. Bxrper 

& Brothers. $1.25. 
Brown of Moukden : A Story of the Russo-Japanese War. By 

Herbert Strang. lUxis., 12mo, pp. 370. G. P. Putnam's Sons. 

$1.50. 
The Opal Serpent. By Fergus Hume. With frontispiece, 

12mo. pp. 315. G. W. Dillingham Co. $1.25. 
A Specimen Spinster. By Kate Westlake Yeigh. 12mo, 

pp. 314. Griffith & Rowland Press. 75 cts. net. 
Love Letters that Caused a Divorce. By Mrs. A. E. Alding- 
ton. 12mo. gilt top, pp. 96. G. W. Dillingham Co. 75 cts. 
The Green Flag, and Other Stories of War and Sport. By A. 

Conan Doyle. Popular edition ; 12mo, pp. 383. R. F. Fenno 

&Co. 50 cts. 



242 



THE DIAL 



[April 1, 



Works of Edith Wharton. New Uniform Edition. Com- 
prising : The House of Mirth, Crucial Instances, The Valley 
of Decision, The Touchstone, Sanctuary, The Descent of Man, 
The Greater Inclination. Each 12mo, gilt top. Charles Scrib- 
ner's Sons. 

Popular Editions of Recent Fiction. New vols. : The Vi- 
king's Skull, by John R. Carling ; Sarah Tuldon : A Woman 
Who Had Her Way, by Orme Agnus ; Hassan : A Fellah, by 
Henry Gillman ; The Wolverine : A Romance of Early Mich- 
igan, by Albert Lathrop Lawrence ; The Siege of Youth, by 
Frances Charles ; Painted Shadows, by Richard LeGallienne. 
Each illus., 12mo. Little, Brown, & Co. Per vol., 75 cts. 

TRAVEL AND ADVENTURE. 
Panama to Fatagronia : The Isthmian Canal and the West 

Coast Countries of South America. By Charles M. Pepper. 

Illus., large 8vo, gilt top, pp. 397. A.C.McClurg&Co. $1.25 net. 
The liOer of a Sea Angrier : Sport and Adventures in Many 

Seas with Spear and Rod. By Charles Frederick Holder. 12mo, 

gilt top, pp. 385. Houghton, MiflBin & Co. |1.50 net. 

RELIGION AND THEOLOGY. 

Some Dogrmas of Religrion. By John McTaggart Ellis McTag- 
gart. Large 8vo, imcut, pp. 298. Longmans, Green, & Co. $3. net. 

Christian Orig-ins. By Otto Pfleiderer ; trans, from the Ger- 
man by Daniel A. Huebsch. Authorized edition ; 12mo, gilt 
top, pp. 295. New York: B. W. Huebsch. $1.75 net. 

On Life After Death. By Hugo Wemekke ; trans, from the 
German of Gustav Theodor Fechner. Revised and enlarged 
edition ; with portrait, 16mo, gilt top, pp. 133. Chicago : Open 
Court Publishing Co. 

SOCIOLOGY. — POLITICS. - ECONOMICS. 

Ethical Principles of Harriagre and Divorce. By Louis F. 

Post. 8vo, gilt top, pp. 138. Chicago: Public Publishing Co. 

$1. net. 
Marrlagre and Race Death : The Foundations of an Intelli- 
gent System of Marriage. By Morrison I. Swift. 12mo, pp. 270. 

New York : Morrison I. Swift Press. 
The Cong-o : A Report of the Commission of Inquiry. 12mo, 

pp.171. "Questions of the Day." G.P.Putnam's Sons. $l.net. 
The Factory Legrislation of the State of New York. By 

Fred Rogers FairchUd, Ph.D. Large 8vo, uncut, pp. 222. 

" Publications of the American Economic Association." Mac- 

millan Co. Paper, $1. 

SCIENCE. 
Geologry. By Thomas C. Chamberlin and RoUin D. Salisbury. 

Vols. II. and III., Earth History ; completing the work. Illus., 

8vo. Henry Holt & Co. Per set of 2 vols., $8. net. 
Thunder and Ligrhtningr. By Camille Flammarion ; trans, by 

Walter Mostyn. Illus., 12mo, pp. 281. Little, Brown, & Co. 

$1.25 net. 
The Seven Follies of Science : A Popular Account of the 

Most Famous Scientific Impossibilities and the Attempts 

Made to Solve Them. By John Phin. Illus., 12mo, pp. 178. 

D. Van Nostrand Co. $1.25 net. 

MUSIC. 

Grove's Dictionary of Music and Musicians. Edited by 
J. A. Fuller Maitland, M.A. Vol. II., illus. in photogravure, 
etc., large 8vo, gilt top, imcut, pp. 800. Macmillan Co. $5. net. 

Elson's Music Dictionary. By Louis C. Elson. 8vo, pp. 306. 
Oliver Ditson Co. $1. 

EDUCATION. 
Selections from Les Caract^es of La Bruy6re. Edited by 
F. M. Warren. 16mo, pp. 146. " Heath's Modem Language 
Series." D. C. Heath & Co. 50 cts. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

A History of Modem Liberty. By James Mackinnon. In 
2 vols., large 8vo. Longmans, Green, & Co. $10. net 

The Opal Sea : Continued Studies in Impressions and Appear- 
ances. By John C. Van Dyke. With photogravure frontis- 
piece, 16mo, pp. 262. Charles Scribner's Sons. $1.25 net. 

Russian Reader. By Paul Boyer and N. Speranski ; adapted 
for English-speaking students by Samuel Northrup Harper. 
Large 8vo, pp. 381. University of Chicago Press. $3. net. 

The Development of Palestine Exploration: Being the 
Ely Lectures for 1903. By Frederick Jones Bliss, Ph.D. 12mo, 
pp. 337. Charles Scribner's Sons. $1.50 net. 

The Place -Names of Argryll. By H. Cameron Gillies. 
Large 8vo, gilt top, pp. 273. London: David Nutt. 



Enigmas of Psychical Research. By James H. Hyslop. 12mo, 
gilt top, pp. 427. Herbert B. Turner & Co. $1.50 net. 

The Old and the New Magic. By Henry Ridgely Evans; 
with Introduction by Dr. Paul Carus. Illus., large 8vo, pp. 348. 
Chicago : Open Court Publishing Co. 



FOR ANY BOOK ON EARTH write to H. H. TIMBV, 

Book Hunter. Catalogues free. 1st Nat. Bank Bldg., Conneaut, O. 



ROOK'S ^^^ OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS SUPPLIED. 
■-'^-''-"*-*^* no matter on what subject. Write us. We can get 
you any book ever published. Please state wants. Catalogue free. 
BAKER'S GREAT BOOK-SHOP, 14-16 Bright St., Birmingham, Eno. 



'boTok 

PLATES 



Engraved on Copper, Steel, or Wood 

Antique or Modern Designs. 
Heraldry a Specialty. 
_ Crests and Coats of Arms. 

ROBERT SNEIDER COMPANY 

143-145 Fulton Street NEW YORK. 

STORY-WRITERS, Biographers, Historians, Poets — Do 

— ^-^^^^— ^^^^^— you desire the honest criticism of your 
book, or its skilled revision and correction, or advice as to publication 7 
Such work, said George William Curtis, is " done as it should be by The 
Easy Chair's friend and fellow laborer in letters, Dr. Titus M. Coan." 
Terms by agreement. Send for circular D, or forward your book or MS. 
to the New York Bureau of Revision, 70 Fifth Ave., New York. 

AUTHORS 

Will find " The Art and Craft of the Author," by C. E. Heisch, 
an indispensable aid in their work. $1.20 net ; prepaid 11.30. 
THE GRAFTON PRESS, Publishers, 70 Fifth Ave., New York. 



WILLIAM R.JENKINS 

851 and 853 Sixth Avenue (cor. 48th Street) New York 

No branch stores 



FRENCH 

and other 
foreign 

BOOKS 



BEAD OUR 

ROMANS CHOISIS SERIES 

26 Titles. Paper 60c., cloth 85c. vol. 

CONTES CHOISIS SERIES 

24 Titles. Paper 25c. , cloth 40c. vol. 
Masterpieces, pure, by well-known authors. 
Read extensively by classes ; notes in English. 
List, also catalogue of all publications and 
imported books, on application. 



CLASSICS, "FOR A SONG" 

Hundreds of the world's best, at Ic. to 15c. List free. 

"Bargains in Worth While Books"; big catalogue free. 
Any book supplied — lowest prices anywhere. 

Where Is It ? Unique index to everything, 3c. and 10c. 

" Library of Universal Literature," all times, all languages. 
The best, one-fourth the cost of others. 

Perfect Pamphlet Preserver; l2mo, lOc; 8vo, ISc; maga- 
zines, 20c. Looks like a book ; stronger ; simple as tying a shoe. 

The Ideal Cyclopedia ; one of the largest and latest and best 
for use at any price, at one-third the cost of any rival. 

ALDEN BROTHERS, Publishers, 405 Bible House, N.Y. 



WORK IN A LIBRARY 

Its pleasures and duties : How and what to 
study for it. Read PUBLIC LIBRARIES, 
a practical journal, monthly. $1. a year. 
Sample copy sent free. 

PUBLIC LIBRARIES 



156 Wabash Avenue 



CHICAGO 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



243 



THREE FAST 

California Trains 

daily via the Chicago, Union Pacific & 
North-Western Line, over the only double 
track railway between Chicago and the 
Missouri River. 

The Overland Limited 

Fast through electric-lighted train to 
San Francisco _ and Portland. Most 
luxurious train in the world. Less than 
three days en route. 

Los Angeles Limited 

Electric-lighted through train arriving 
at Los .\ngeles afternoon of the third 
day, via the new Salt Lake Route. 
Entire new equipment. Drawing-Room 
and Tourist bleeping: cars, Composite- 
Observation cars. Dining cars. 

The China& Japan FastMall 

To San Francisco, Lcs Ange.es and 
Portland ■without change. " Pullman 
Drawing-Room and Tourist 
Sleeping cars. Dining cars. 

For booklets, maps, schedules' 
rates, list of botds, aad descrip- 
tion of limited trains apply at 

TICKET OFFICES: 
Zl t Clarfc St. Mid Walls St. Sta. 

(Tel. Central 721. J 




SnaSttiPKBaSa 

TYPEWRITERS 
appeal t« your sens* and your senses 

They have the light touch •which makes 

for speed and attractive writine. 

Thk Smith Pbbviek Ttpewritke Co. 

Syracuse , N. Y. 

Branch Stores tvervwhere 



20 



E. Van Buren Street 
CHICAGO 



One Hundred and Seventy=five Dollars 

Represents the aanaal subscription cost of more than 
thirty English periodicals which are drawn ui)on regularly 
for the weekly numbers of 

The Living Age 

Readers of that magazine sectire the most important and 
timely articles in this long list of English quarterlies, 
monthly reviews and magazines and literary and political 
weekly journals, reproduced promptly and without abridg- 
ment, for only SIX DOLL.VRS a year. More than 3.300 
pages each year. Trial subscription, three months, thir- 
teen numbers, one dollar. 

THE LIVING AQE CO. 

6 Beacon Street Boston, Mass. 



Importing Notice 

AA/E b^ to announce that we have greatly extended 
our facilities for the importation of English 
books, so that we now are equipped to fill orders of 
this sort with the greatest efficiency and intelligence. 
Promptness, good service, and low prices will nde 
in this department, as they do in all oar business. 



THE BAKER & TAYLOR CO., whoUsau Bookseiu 

33-37 East 17th St., Union Sq. North, New York 



THE BOOKS 
OF ALL PUBLISHERS 

are carried in our stock, 
which is larger and more 
general than that of any 
other house in the country. 

LIBRARY ORDERS 

given prompt and intelligent 
service. Our large stock 
and extensive library expe- 
rience enables us to give 
valuable aid and advice to 
libraries and librarians. 

CATALOGUE CARDS and 
CARD CABINETS 

We carry a special line and 
will be glad to furnish a 
price list. 

LIBRARY DEPARTMENT 

A. C. McCLURG & CO. 

CHICAGO 



244 



THE DIAL 



[April 1, 1906. 




Fox Duf field & Company's 
New and Forthcoming Books 



The Eternal Spring 



By NEITH BOYCE 
(Mrs. Hutchins Hapgood) 
" A love story of unusual psychological power is set forth in Mrs. 
Hapgood's third book, ' The Eternal Spring.' The plot centres 
round three women and a man. ... It is unfair to disclose it. 
Its merit lies in its psychological penetration, its clear-cut char- 
acter delineation, and its charm of literary finish." — The Detroit 
Free Press. 

" Its enduring charm lies in the author's instinctive taste and per- 
ception." — Chicago Evening Post. 

"Refined, subtle, artistic — a clever piece of fiction, written in a style always sympathetic and 
graceful." — New York Evening Sun. 

Illustrated by Blendon Campbell. ^/.JO postpaid. 



The Way of an Indian 



By FREDERIC REMINGTON, author of "Men with the Bark On," "Crooked Trails," etc. 
One of the cleverest books Mr. Remington has ever done. A study of a genuine Indian brave, 
the Red Man as he really was. With fourteen illustrations, including a frontispiece in color, by 
the author. $1.30 postpaid. 

The Ghosts of Their Ancestors 

By WEYMER JAY MILLS 
"A delightful satire on ancestor worship in America. It will make all those unfortunates who are 
not Colonial Dames or members of a Republican aristocracy howl with glee." 

With illustrations in color and many decorations in black and white by John Rae. 

$1.23 postpaid. 

Reminiscences of My Childhood and Youth 

By GEORGE BRANDES. Translated by G. M. FOX-DAVIES. 
A delightful book of recollections, of an intrinsic charm as great as its literary and critical importance, 
which is of the first order. $2.50 net ; postage additional. Ready in May. 

The Book of Tea 

By OKAKURA-KAKUZO, author of "The Awakening of Japan." 
A charming interpretation of the Japanese tea-cult. Articles in the magazines by Mr. Okakura 
have excited the widest admiration of his style and peculiar felicity in writing English. What he 
has to say about Japan is not only well said but worth saying. 

$1.20 net; postage additional. Ready May 1st. 



FOX DUFFIELD & COMPANY 

ae EAST 21*21 STREET HEW YORK 




THE DIAL PRESS, FINE ABTS BUILDINO, CRICAOO 



?ublic Library, 



^> 



i^BE 



NCE, "« 



K^ 



■So: 



THE DIAL 

^ SEMI-MONTHLY JOURN/fL OF 

l^it^rarg Crilkism, giscussxon, anb information. 



Edited by 
FRANCIS F. BROWNE 



} ''"irrrs"'"'" CHICAGO, APRIL 16, 1906. '%''^ H^""- { 



Fine Abts Building 
208 Michigan Blvd. 



JOSEPH JEFFERSON 

Reminiscences of a Fellow Player 
By FRANCIS WILSON 

Fully lUiLstrated. Price, 82.00 iiet (postage extra). 
Intimate and delightfid reminiscences of Joseph Jefferson, his conversations, his opinions on literature and 
art — especially the art of the actor — told by Francis Wilson, the well-known actor, who was for many 
years his friend. There are many of Jefferson's characteristic stories, full of his wise and witty interpre- 
tations of the incidents of his career and reflections of every phase of his long and happy life, and accoimts 
of his recreations as a fisherman with Mr. Cleveland and other friends, his development of the play " Rip 
Van Winkle," and his experiences as a lecturer at Yale, Harvard, and other universities. 



THE NEW FAR EAST 

By Thomas F. Millard 

Mr. Millard describes the actual industrial conditioiis in 
Japan, the uncertain future of Japan, Japanese methods 
of influencing public opinion throughout the world, their 
intentions in Korea and responsibility for the Chinese 
boycott, conditions in Manchuria, and other important 
matters. ^j 50 ^^^ (postage 13 cents). 



The Philippine Experiences 
OF AN American Teacher 

By William B. Freer 

"A remarkable piece of work. A description of the 
Filipino, his fanlts, his good points, his ambitions, that 
ranst help everyone who has to deal with him. Ex- 
tremely entertaining as well as instructive." — 'S . Y. Sun. 
Dlustrated. S1.50 net (postage 12 cents). 



FICTION 



THE TOWER 



By Mary Tappan Wright 

A novel of the life of a college community, taken from 
the faculty side, and told with deep imderstanding and 
the most delicate art. 

«1..50. 

BOB AND THE GUIDES 

By Mary R. S. Andrews 

'■ So admirably worked up and so infused with the 
breath of the Northern wilderness that the interest never 
slackens." — N. Y. Tribune. 

Illustrated. $1.-50. 



SIX STARS 

By Nelson Lloyd 

Six Stars contains more humor, originality, sentiment, and 
interest than any other known town of its size. 

Illustrated. $1.50. 

THE LAW-BREAKERS 

By Robert Grant 

A book that shows the finished literary skill, artistic 
power, and knowledge of life of the author of " Unleav- 
ened Bread." 

$1.2.5. 



THE NEW POCKET EDITION OF THE WORKS OF 

GEORGE MEREDITH 

A most practical, convenient, and attractive edition. Ready in Api-il : The Ordeal of Richard Feverel, Sandra Belloni, 
Vittoria, Diana of the Cross- Ways. There will be sixteen volumes, similar in appearance and make-up to the suc- 
cessful Biographical Edition of Stevenson. Each vohmie, sold separately. Limp Leather, $1.25 net. Cloth, $1.00. 



CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS 



NEW YORK 



246 



THE DIAL 



[April 16, 



NEW PUBLICATIONS, SPRING 1906 

©oiiii, jHeaa Si Company 



FICTION 



MISCELLA NEO US 



PAM DECIDES 

By Bettina von Hutten. Author of 

Pam. ' ' Illustrations by B. Martin Justice 

12mo, cloth. $1.50 

A sequel to Pam, the delightful novel of last spring. 



COWARDICE COURT 

By George Barr McCutcheon. Author 
of Beverly of Graustark," "Nedra," 

The Day of the Dog, ' ' etc. 
12mo, cloth. $1.25 

Illustrations in color by Harrison Fisher and 
decorations by T. B. Hapgood. 



RUBAIYAT OF A MOTOR CAR 

By Carolyn Wells. Author of "A Non- 
sense Anthology," ** Idle Idyls," etc. 
Sq. 8vo, cloth. net $1.00 

Illustrations by F. Strothman. 

An amusing parody of Omar in Miss Wells' best vein. 



HOLLAND DESCRIBED BY 
GREAT WRITERS 

By Esther Singleton. Author of "Lon- 
don Described by Great Writers," etc. 
8vo cloth. we/ $1.60 

Illustrated in manner of her "I<ondon" and "Paris." 



THE PATRIOTS 
By Cyrus Townsend Brady. Author of 

The Southerners," etc. 
I2mo, cloth. Illustrated. $1.50 

a war time story that cannot but appeal to every 
true American. 



AMERICANS OF 1776 

By James Schouler. Author of History 
of the United States," "Eighty Years 
of Union," etc. 12mo, cloth, ne/ $2.00 

"There is more interesting reading matter in James 
Schouler's 'Americansof 1776' than in a hundred his- 
torical romances covering the same period.'" — Globe. 



MY SWORD FOR LAFAYETTE 

By Max Pemberton. Author of ** The 
Garden of Swords, " Beatrice of Ven- 
ice," etc. 12mo, cloth. Fully illus. $1.50 
a stirring story of love and adventure. 



THE SCHOLAR'S DAUGHTER 

By Beatrice Harraden. Author of 

Ships that Pass in the Night," etc. 

With illustrations and decorations and 

printed in two colors. 12mo, cloth. $1.50 

"Only a woman of genius could have written it." — 
The Sphere (I/Ondon). 



HOW TO PREPARE FOR EUROPE 

By H. A. Guerber. Author of "Legends 
of Switzerland, ' ' Stories of the Wagner 
Opera," etc. 12mo, cloth. net $2.00 

a book of the greatest importance to those who con- 
template a European trip. 



THE LAUNCHING OF A 
UNIVERSITY 
By Daniel Coit Gilman, LL.D. 
8vo, cloth. net%9..50 

"Sure to recall many pleasant memories of those 
familiar with the first days of Johns Hopkins." — 
Baltimore News. 



A LAME DOG'S DIARY 

By S. Macnaughton. Author of "The 
Fortune of Christina Macnab," etc. 
12mo, cloth. $1.50 

"A most effective story told in a striking way." — 
N. Y. IVorld. 



THE KEY TO THE BLUE CLOSET 

By W. Robertson Nicoll. Author of 

"Letters on Life," etc. 

12mo, cloth. net $1.40 

a volume of clever and convincing essays. 



THE HILL 

By Horace Annesley Vachell. Author 
of " John Charity," "Brothers," etc. 
12mo, cloth. $1.50 

"A thoroughly delightful story."-CA/V:a.g-o iPaj/y AV2f J 



FAMOUS INTRODUCTIONS TO 
SHAKESPEARE'S PLAYS 

By the notable editors of the 1 8th Cen- 
tury. Edited by Beverly Warner, D. D. 
Author of English History in Shakes- 
peare's plays. " 12mo, cloth, net ^9,. 50 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



247 



IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENTS 

SPRING LIST OF 
McCLURE, PHILLIPS & 



# 



FROM THE 



CO. 



# 



A NEW BOOK BY THE NEW ENGLISH ESSAYIST 

G. Lowes Dickinson 

THE MEANING OF GOOD 

In this fascinating book, which takes the form of the Platonic dialo^e yet which preserves all the delightful infor- 
mality of a familiar conversation among men of our own day, Mr. Dickinson finds fullest scope for his powers both 
as a perfect prosateur and as a subtle dialectician. As to his style the Athenaeum said in a recent review that he is 
" one of the few living Englishmen who can really write prose . . . prose, limpid, natural, musical." Perhaps he is 
the on Iv living Englishman who, possessing such a marvellous instrument, uses it to such high ends as Mr. Dickinson 
invariably has in view in his books. Here the end is that highest of all ends, the determination of what is fundamental 
in that idea of good which underlies the theory and practice of conduct and is the mainstay of our hope for the future. 

Cloth. Net, $1.20 ; post^tge 10 cents extra. 

BY THE SAME AUTHOR 



THE GREEK VIEW OF LIFE 

" Deserves the thanks of all readers who believe in the 
desirability of our historical basis for the pursuit of the 
things that are more excellent. . . . Ought to stimulate 
a real interest for a period that invariably fascinates our 
eyes." The Dial. " Admirably proportioned . . . itself 
illustrates that Hellenic balance and moderation which 
is its theme." l^he yation. 

Cloth. Net, $1.00 ; postage 8 cents extra. 

LETTERS FROM A CHINESE 
OFFICIAL 

" A little book so filled with facts that it is a pity it can- 
not be brought to the attention of every thinking man 
in Christendom." Chicago Xews. 

Paper boards, net, 50 cents ; postage 5 cents extra. 



A MODERN SYMPOSIUM 

" Ought to be welcome to all lovers of prose and to all 
students of modem civilization . . . impossible to do 
justice to the security and ease, the lightness and pene- 
tration combined. . . . The book is as charming as it is 
suggestive." Athenceum. 

Cloth. Net, f 1.00; postage 8 cents extra. 



RELIGION: 

A CRITICISM AND A FORECAST 

" The most pregnant and provocative of recent writers 
on this and similar subjects." Gilbebt K. Chestbbton 
In " Heretics." 

Paper boards. Net, 50 cents ; postage 5 cents extra. 



Clara Morris 

THE LIFE OF A STAR 

A new volume of stage reminiscences by America's pre- 
mier emotional actress and author of " Life on the Stage." 
Cloth. Net, $1.50 ; postage 12 cents extra. 

Martin Hume 

WIVES OF HENRY VIII. 

" Among present-day historians there is none who writes 
more vividly than Mr. Hume. He takes the dry bones 
of old facts and transforms them into shapes of living 
significance." Louisville Post. 
Cloth. Illustrated. Net, $3.75 ; postacre 15 cents extra. 

Perceval Gibbon 

VROUW GROBELAAR 

" In ' Vrouw Grobelaar ' lies waiting a genuine sensation 
for the lover of short stories. Unless the reviewer is at 
fault, they will recall to the reader the hour wherein he 
first tasted Maupassant, and that other hour when the 
new Kipling swam into his ken." The Xation. 
Cloth, $1.25. 



Lincoln Steffens 

THE STRUGGLE FOR SELF- 
GOVERNMENT 

Being an attempt to trace American political corruption 
in six States of the United States, with a dedication to 
the Czar. Cloth. Net, $1.20 ; iK>stage 12 cents extra. 

Charles Wagner 

WAYSIDE TALKS 

Pastor Wagner not only finds sermons in stones, but in 
everything. The commonest sights and experiences seem 
to point to some simple lesson of life. 

Cloth. Net, $1.00; postages cents extra. 

Florence Wilkinson 

THE FAR COUNTRY 

A new book of poems by the brilliant author of " Kings 
and Queens," and " Two Plays of Israel." This book 
shows her a serious poet, with a wide sweep of emotion 
and an unusual breadth of knowledge. 

Cloth. Net, $1.00 ; postage 13 cents extra. 



McCLURE, PHILLIPS & CO., 44 EAST 23D ST., NEW YORK 



248 THE DIAL [April 16, 1906. 



"The most engaging story yet written of Southern life" 

is said by a Southerner of 

Mr. Owen Wister's new novel just ready 

Lady Baltimore 

♦' ♦ Lady Baltimore * is the most engaging story yet written of Southern life. It is the quiet annals 
of an old Southern town told in the half whimsical, wholly sympathetic style of ' Cranford,' to 
which it is closely akin in -charm. It reminds one, too, of Margaret Deland's admii-able ' Old 
Chester Tales ,' for it is written with the same loving appreciation of a simple neighborhood. 
With what a sense of htimor, with what a delicacy of touch, with what a finished skill Owen 
Wister has made an exquisite pictm-e you must read to see. It is like a dainty water color 
portrait, delicious in itself even if it were not true; but to its truth there will rise up a crowd 
of witnesses. 

" I am ready to venture that any Southern man or woman who reads it will stop often, with 
finger between the leaves, to say, 'Ain't it so? This is exactly the way it is back home. This 
is us.' . . . The book is charming in every particular." — The Chicago Record-Herald. 

The scenes of "the most appealing, the loveliest, the most wistfultown in America " 
are admirably reproduced in drawings in the text. Cloth, $1 50. 



New Books of Notable Interest 

Mr. Egerton Castle's new novel If Youth But Knew 

By the Author of " The Pride of Jennico," " Yoimg April," etc. Cloth, $1.50. 

Mr. Eden Phiilpotts's nmv novel The Portreeve 

By the Author of " Children of the Mist," " The Secret Woman," etc. Cloth, $1.50. 

Mr. John Spargo's social study The Bitter Cry of the Children 

An investigation of the conditions of poverty affecting children. 

Cloth, $150 net (postage 13c.) 

Mr. Hugo R. Meyer's Municipal Ownership in Great Britain 

States the facts of thirty-five years' experience, with figures, sources, and dates fully given. 

Cloth, 12mo. $1.50 net {postage 13c.) 

Memoirs of Archbishop Temple by Seven Friends 

The story of a life whose characteristic was breadth and strong personal influence blended. 

l^wo volumes, 8vo, $9 00 net. 

Prof. C. T. Winchester's Life of John Wesley 

Better than any other biography this brings out the personality of this plain little man of sucli 
wonderful mastery over men. Cloth, 8vo, $1.50 net (postage 17c.) 

Mr. Stephen Phillips's new play Nero By the Author of "Ulysses." 
Mr. Beerbohm Tree's recent brilliant success upon the London stage. 

Cloth, $1.25 net (postage 8 cts.) Large-paper edition on Japanese vellum, $5.00 net. 

Napoleon Volume IX. of The Cambridge Modern History 

The sixth volume to. appear of the notable work described by the Nation as "the most full, 
comprehensive and scientific history of modern times." Cloth, royal 8vo. $4-00 net. 



PUBLISHED -pHE MACMILLAN COMPANY '^"'Ve'w^o'S?'^''^ 



THE DIAL 

a Scmi^fHontfjlg Journal of Ettfrarg Criticism, Siscussion, anlJ lEnformation. 



THE DIAL (founded in ISSOj U publUhed on the Itt and 16th 
of each month. Terms of Subscriftiok, $i. a year in advance. 
%>o*tage prepaid in the United State*, Canada, and Mexico; 
in other countries comprised in ttie Postal Union. SO cents a 
year for extra postage must be added. BBMnrAJ^cBs should 
be bv check, or by express or postal order, payable to THB 
VIA L COM PA N Y. Un less otfierwise ordered, subscriptions 
will begin with the current number. When no direct request 
to discontinue at expiration of subscription is received, it is 
assumed that a continuance of the subscription is desired. 
Advertisiko Satbs furnished on application. A II comnwni- 
cations sltoiUd be addressed to 

THE DIAL, Fine ArU Building, Chicago. 

EXTEKKD AT THE CHICAGO POSTOFFICE AS SECONX>-CI-ASS MATTER 
BT THE DIAL COMPAXY, PCBUSHERS. 



NOTES ON CONTEMPORARY POETRY. 



No. 476. 



APRIL 16, 1906. 



Vol. XL. 



Contexts. 



NOTES ON CONTEilPORARY POETRY. Martha 

Hade Shaclford 249 

COMMUNICATIONS 253 

Peace Terms of the War of 1812. A. T. ifahan. 
The Author of " Hawaiian Yesterdays." Sara 
Andrew Shafer. 

THE MASTERLDsESS OF MASTERY. Charles H. 

Cooper 254 

JAPAN'S ANCIENT RELIGION. William EUiot 

Griffis 255 

THE FOUNT)ER OF MODERN LANDSCAPE ART. 

Walter Cranston Lamed 256 

STTJDIES OF THE IMMIGRATION PROBLEM. 

Frederic A\tstin Ogg 257 

THE DISCOVERER OF THE ST. LAWRENCE. 

Lawrence J. Burpee 260 

RECENT FICTION. WiUiam Morton Pa^ne ... 262 
Sinclair's The Jungle. — Lynde's The Quicken- 
ing. — Ward's The Sage-Brush Parson. — Mac- 
donald's The Sea Maid. — Quick's Double Trouble. 

— Brady's The Patriots. — Moore's The Lake. — 
Maarten Maartens's The Healers. — Benson's The 
Angel of Pain. — Crockett's Fishers of Men. 

BRIEFS ON NEW BOOKS 264 

An English history of the American Civil War. — 
Letters chiefly from Spain. — A disentangler of the 
secret of the Totem. — Two new books on Mary 
Stuart. — The story of a wayward personality. — 
The story of a Platonic friendship. — A hero and 
leader of the Reformation. — A great reference 
work of Music and Musicians. — The love of Venice 
and its modem charm. — A romantic island history. 

— In the world of Chaucer's pilgrims. 

NOTES 268 

LIST OF NEW BOOKS 269 



"I have no ear," wrote Charles Lamb, a confes- 
sion that might, more pertinently, come from certain 
poets of to-day. The lyric note needed for spiritual 
consolation after our weary hoars of toil seldom 
reaches us in modern verse. K we wish to dwell 
in the presence of melody pure and fine, we turn 
to the older poets; for our present writers seem 
careless of that which is their great prerogative, 
the power to enthrall readers by the magic of 
audible beauty. The disregard for melody in 
poetT)' is apparent to those who make it a practice 
to read poetry aloud, but is often unnoted by readers 
who. for their pleasure, depend upon the eye. In 
this age, when poetry has had a glorious past, when 
the English tongue has already been shaped to match- 
less music, we cannot afford to look with tolerance 
upon poetT}' that falls far short of technical perfec- 
tion. The question of musical excellence is to-day 
more than ever important when prose is usurping 
public favor. Poetry must know her kingdom ; and, 
since poetrj' is the transfer of beautiful truth by con- 
crete symbols, communication between unapparent 
spirits by means of sensuous images, considerations 
of these sensuous elements of poetry should go hand 
in hand with criticism of spiritual values. No one of 
the senses is to be constdt«d more closely than that 
of hearing. If wfe were" to read all orfr poetry aloud, 
verse would again take its rightful place in human 
civilization, and be once more what it was in the 
years before the printing of books took away the 
voice of poetry. We scorn to be satisfied with mere 
eye-reading of a piece of music, insisting that it shall 
be rendered audibly ; in only a lesser degree should 
we be satisfied merely to look at the music of poetry. 

If one reads aloud the recent verse of authors of 
considerable renown, one finds that in almost every 
poem there is some flaw, some bit of careless worit- 
manship, to mar its beauty. 

*' Too fair for mde reality, 
Too real for a shade," 

with its intolerable succession of awkwardly 
placed r's ; 

" And ao at last the poet sang, 
In biting hunger and hard pain,'^ 

where n's are introduced in reckless profusion ; 

" Momently 
Stlence and dissonance, like eating moths, 
Scatter corruption on the choiring orbs,'' 

where both harmony and nature are defied ; and 

*' The woodland weaves its gold-green net ; 
The warm wind lazes by ; 
Can we forego ? Can we forget ? 
Come, comrade, let us try ! " 



250 



THE DIAL 



[April 16, 



with its insistent alliteration, — all these betray the 
hand of the artisan. Turning from these trans- 
gressions, one may see how Collins solved the prob- 
lem of repetition, — 

" Whose numbers, stealing through thy darkening vale, 
May, not unseemly, with its stillness suit, 
As, musing slow, I hail 
Thy genial loved return ! " 

If indifference in the matter of adjusting sounds 
is the most obvious offense against melody in our 
current poetry, with it are distinct and frequently 
censured sins in the matters of rhyme and rhythm. 
Monotony in rhyme is more deserving of pardon than 
is false rhyme where the sounds are only approximate 
in musical echo. " Lover " and " clover " illustrate 
the common fault, the choice of eye-rhymes, insup- 
poi'table when pronounced aloud, because they im- 
mediately force the reader to unhappy consciousness 
of mere words when he should follow the idea. 
Oftentimes a bewildered reader does not know how 
to pronounce the rhyming words of a poem in which 
such combinations appear, as in a sonnet whose first 
four verses end in '' stood," " said," " myriad," and 
" solitude." However much the reader may wish to 
do justice, orally, to the poem, he cannot tell, until 
reaching " mood " in the fifth verse, just what gen- 
erous intonations, must be given in order to obliterate 
the differences between " stood " and " solitude," 
" said " and " myriad." The disregard for integrity of 
rhyme is often matched by disregard for integjrity 
of rhythm. A single example will suffice to show what 
frequently occurs in poems written in blank verse : 

" Unto this twain, man-child and woman-ehild, 
I give the passion of this element ; 

• • • • 

This power, this purity, this annihilation." 

There is so little power of invention among poets 
of the present time, so little originality in versificar 
tion, that we scarcely ever find impressive beauty 
wrought out by artful verse forms. Few poets attempt 
anything more than the iambic movement. No spirit 
of daring experiment animates contributors to maga- 
zines. A correct form has been established, it has 
found favor, and no man is so hardy as to venture 
an innovation. If we think of the exuberant measures 
of the Elizabethan period, we may well condemn 
ourselves that we cannot say, with George Wither, 

" I have a Muse, and she shall music make me ; 
Whose airy notes, in spite of closest cages, 
Shall give content to me, and after ages." 

It is true that iambic verse is best suited to the genius 
of the English language ; but poets have, in the past, 
found the secret of varied melodies. 

" Come away, come away, death, 

And in sad cypress let me be laid ; 
Fly away, fly away, breath, 

I am slain by a fair cruel maid. 

My shroud of white, stuck all with yew, 

O prepare it ! 
My part of death, no one so true 

Did share it," 



or Raleigh's 

" But true love is a durable fire, 
In the mind ever burning, 
Never sick, never old, never dead, 
From itself never turning," 

show the use of the trochee and of the anapest. 
It is of course the inward impulse, not any math- 
ematical gift, that produces undeniable melody ; yet, 
after all, " the immortal longings " of the poet may 
be satisfied if he will take counsel with the Olym- 
pians, and also with Nature. There is much to be 
learned by versifiers from a close scrutiny of ele- 
mental music. May not the undulations of waving 
grass, or the drifting of fallen leaves, or the more 
majestic beating of the tide, be a guide to subtle 
rhythmical charm, as the sounds of Nature were to 
writers such as Spenser, whose work, in portions of 
" The Faerie Queene " and in the " Prothalamion," 
is characterized by the melody of one who knew the 
ripple of running water ; or Burns, who in 

" Green grow the rashes, ; 
Green grow the rashes, O ; " 
or in 

" Duncan Gray cam' here to woo. 
Ha, ha, the wooing o't ! 
On blythe Yule night when we were fou. 
Ha, ha, the wooing o't ! " 

gives us much of the rich fulness of bird notes? 

In the obvious attractions of color and form, our 
poets are becoming more and more worthy of admi- 
ration. The subdued effect of 

" Until some hazy autumn day 

With yellow evening in the skies 
And rime upon the tawny hills, 

The far blue signal smoke shall rise," 

the swift distinctness of 

" My soul, like wheeling swallows in the raio, 
Flies low — flies low — " 

the more ambitious 

" A sheaf of broom-flowers, yellow at the heart, 

Drugged with the sun and listless with the dew, 
The silence of the ordered petal edge 
With flame shot through," 

and the intensity of 

" Noons of poppy, noons of poppy, 
Scarlet acres by the sea, 
Burning to the blue above them ; 
Love, the world is full for me," 

show unquestionable delight in visible beauty. Never 
before in the history of English poetry have color- 
words found so large a place as at the present time. 
An alert consciousness of the sun and sky, and of the 
waning of color, is noticeable in almost every issue 
of a magazine. The modern mood is one of increas- 
ing keenness of eye, but even yet sensuous perception 
has not become imaginative in the highest fashion. 
We have an abundance of descriptive poetry, deli- 
cately responsive to the stimulus of varying condi- 
tions of nature, and we have an abundance of the 
poetry of unrelieved reflection ; but the interpretation 
of the ideal in terms of the concrete is very infrequent. 
Such lines as these are constantly appearing, — 
" Stirring my eager soul to some transcendent strife." 



1906.] 



THE DIAI. 



251 



Here is truth, but not poetic truth, since no specific 
imagery forces the idea upon the reader's vital intelli- 
gence ; he does not see or hear the strife ; it is a cold 
and shapeless warfare, hinted at, rather than pro- 
jected by picturesque symbols, as in Miss Guiney's 

•• While Kings of et«mal evil 
Yet darken the hilU aboat, 
Thy part is with broken sabre 
To rise on the last redoubt ; 

" To fear not sensible failure. 
Nor covet the game at all. 
But fighting, fighting, fighting. 
Die, driven against the wall ! " 

The imaginative pageantrj' which embodies high 
thoughts separates poetry from the bodiless phantom 
of philosophy. Poetry fires the imagination of the 
reader by pointing him to famiUar sights and experi- 
ences as guides to hidden realities. So Vaughan 
uses the concrete in his well-remembered stanza, — 

" I see them walking in an air of glory 
Whose light doth trample on my days ; 
My days, which are at best bnt dull and hoary, 
Mere glimmerings and decays," 

or the lines in " The Retreat," 

" felt through all this fleshly dress 
Bright shoots of everlastingness," 

and the much-praised lines of Marvell, 

" Annihilating all that 's made 
To a green thought in a green shade," 

and Shakespeare's 

" Shall I compare thee to a summer's day ? 
Thou art more lovely and more temperate : 
Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May, 
And summer's lease hath all too short a date." 

While shrinking from objective reality of expres- 
sion is characteristic of many thoughtful poets, the 
very opposite fault is sometimes to be observed, — 
that is, undue lavishness of picture. A certain ver- 
bal generosity marks much of the work presented in 
the current magazines. Few writers have the jwwer 
of combining thought with outer vision, and so flash- 
ing a clear instantaneous light upon a theme. The 
crystallized suggestiveness of 

" All valiant dust that builds on dust." 

or of . 

'■ Give not a windy night a rainy morrow, 
To linger out a purposed overthrow," 

is rare. We have to-day what may be called the 
peripatetic school of ix)etry. which insists upon walk- 
ing all about an object or a dramatic situation, taking 
notes on every aspect. The result of this method 
of investigation is an accumulation of phrases such as 

*' Yet life's explainer, solvent harmony. 
Frail strength, pure passion, meek austerity, 
And the white splendor of these darkened years." 

Work like this comes dangerously near being mere 
lexicography ; one waits in vain for the incisive word, 
the supreme expression of the essential idea. 

There is evidence, oftentimes, of a striving for 
definite imagery ; but the effort is defeated by over- 
comprehensiveness. In the following sonnet the 



author has sought vigorously for the circumstantial, 
and has overwhelmed his readers by crowding pic- 
tures so rapidly, by the aid of eleven " ands " and 
seventeen limiting prepositions, that the effect is 
blurred, inasmuch as the sonnet, noble in conception, 
lacks the calm slow movement of finished art. 

QtTESTIONS. 

" Curious of life and love and death they stand 

Outward along the shadowy verge of thought ; 

Rebels and deicides, they rise unsought 
And spare no creed and yield to no command. 
Even though at last we seem to understand, 

Yet, when our eyes grow sphered to the new light, 

We find them, outposts in the forward night, 
Tlieir eyes still restless with the same demand. 

On all the heights and at the farthest goal 
Set by the seers and Christs of yesterday. 
They watch and wait and ask the onward way ; 

They storm the citadels of faith and youth. 

And, gazing always for the stars of truth, 
Crowd in the glimmering windows of the soul." 

Between these two poles of abstract and of too 
inclusive concrete, there are many lesser manifesta- 
tions of defective imaginative power. Not in 
accordance with human experience is this English 
observation of the ways of nature : 

" Waves of the gentle waters of the healing night, 
Flow over me with silent peace and golden dark. 
Wash me of sound, wash me of color, down the day ; 
Light the tall golden candles and put out the day." 
Again. 

" The wings whereby he strove and climbed," 

is a line troublesome to a reader who must pause to 
reassure himself of the function of wings. It may 
be possible to approve the following lines, but one 
hesitates over the imagery : 

" Our road dropped straight as eye can run." 

What of the suggestion, partly due to f aultj' punctua- 
tion, of these concluding lines of a poem : 

" Groves inaccessible whence voices come, 
That call to the ear whither we may not go " ? 

And what of the anti-climax of image in 

" The past, the future, all of weal and woe 
In my old life was gone, forever g^ne. 
And still to this I clung as one who clings 
To hope's last hencoop in the wreck of things " ? 

The majority of these ill-conditioned lines owe 
their disfigurement to the ambition of poets for some- 
thing new and striking in the way of expression. 
Simplicity, which is the gauge of clearness, is consid- 
ered too old-fashioned by poets who have forgotten, 
or never known, that great poetrj- is transfiguration 
of the commonplace. The inordinate search for the 
unique adjective, the surprising phrase, the spec- 
taciilar image, makes poetasters of us. 

More deplorable than indifference to music or lack 
of sufficiently concrete expression is disloyaltj- to 
the crowding emotions of the world. If we consider 
the question of the emotional element in the poetrj' 
of to-day. we must admit that intellectual perception 
rather than emotional perception preponderates. 
There is a vast amount of successful verse, cvdti- 



262 



THE DIAL 



[AprU 16, 



vated, complacent, without a hint of passionate soul 
behind. Neither the misery nor the joy of life finds 
thrilling voice. Poets give us only the fringes of 
their deep feeling, and deny us knowledge of their 
good and evil, guarding their existence jealously. If 
emotion were a matter of premeditation, or if poign- 
ant understanding of the great passions of the race 
were a matter of felicitous choice, the poet might be 
forgiven his selfish shyness ; but as life goes, no one 
can lay claim to profound emotional individuality. 
A poet should recognize the fact of his alliance with 
all humanity, and so become the interpreter of the 
mysteries of human experience. 

There are two very noticeable tendencies in the 
emotional element of current verse. The old longing 
to attain some sort of personal recognition appears in 
the literature of to-day as strongly as ever. Out of 
the turmoil and friction of human life, some men and 
women are struggling for an imperishable remem- 
brance. They yearn, as men have always yearned, 
to be something more than fleeting shadows; they 
wish to arrest their experience and place it before the 
world, protesting instinctively against the inevitable 
indifference of the world toward the mere individual. 
The self-absorption of this class of authors appears 
in this representative poem : 

" There are so many kinds of me, 
Indeed, I cannot say 
Just which of many I shall be 
On any given day. 

" Whence are they — princess, witch, or nun ? 
I know not ; this I know : 
The gravest, gentlest, simplest one 
Was buried long ago. 

" There, by his hand all covered o'er, 
It slumbers, as is fit ; 
And nothing tells the name it bore, 
Or marks the place of it. 

" But all the other kinds of me 
They know, and turn aside, 
And check their laughter soberly 
Above the one that died." 

Their work reveals the utter impotence of the writers 
to realize that great art sweeps away all limitations 
of time and space and petty personal intents, absorb- 
ing all things into the combined significance of a 
thousand lives. The annihilation of self, the erasure 
of the creature with a surname, must come before 
fate wills immortality. 

While, in the poems below, egotism sinks away 
in a larger grasp of the eternal, another regrettable 
impulse is to be noted. The elevation of tone is 
marked, but so also is the decline of militant spirit- 
uality. 

" Let me remember that I failed, 
So I may not forget 
How dear that goal the distance veiled 
Toward which my feet were set. 

" Let me forget, if so Thy will. 
How fair the joy desired, 
Dear God, so I remember still 
That one day I aspired." 
And 



" Carry me home to the pine-wood, 
Give me to rest by the sea ; 
Leave me alone with the lulling tone 
Of the South-wind's phantasy. 

" For I am weary of discord, 

Sick of the clash of the strife. 
Sick of the bane of this prelude of pain. 
And I yearn for the symphony — Life." 

In a hundred poems to-day we are constantly told 
of a tragic past, of distant splendor, of the tears and 
struggles which are viewed now in melancholy retro- 
spect. These chastened poets show a studied indif- 
ference to the illusions of present action, of heroic 
struggle and triumph in the immediate hour. The 
ring of battle to-day is only an echo from the dis- 
tance ; the living voice has no imperious annunciar 
tion to make of its great joys and sorrows. We 
need such men and women as can match the grim, 
exultant courage of Henley's poem, — 

" Out of the night that covers me, 

Black as the pit from pole to pole, 
I thank whatever gods may be 
For my unconquerable soul. 

" In the fell clutch of circumstance 
I have not winced nor cried aloud, 
Under the bludgeonings of chance 
My head is bloody, but unbowed. 

" Beyond this place of wrath and tears 
Looms but the Horror of the shade ; 
And yet the menace of the years 
Finds and shall find me unafraid. 

" It matters not how strait the gate. 

How charged with punishments the scroll : 
I am the master of my fate, 
I am the captain of my soul." 

Or of Mr. Moody's more hauntingly beautiful song, — 

" Of wounds and sore defeat 
I made my battle stay ; 
Wingfed sandals for my feet 
I wove of my delay ; 
Of weariness and fear 
I made my shouting spear ; 
Of loss, and doubt, and dread, 
And swift oncoming doom, 
I made a helmet for my head 
And a floating plume. 
From the shutting mist of death, 
From the failure of the breath, 
I made a battle-horn to blow 
Across the vales of overthrow. 
hearken, love, the battle horn ! 
The triumph clear, the silver scorn I 
O hearken where the echoes bring, 
Down the grey disastrous morn. 
Laughter and rallying ! " 

America has deep need of poetry. Commercial 
prosperity has not assuaged the griefs that spring 
from estrangement, or bodily pain, or death. We 
yearn to know the truths of this too visible universe, 
the meaning of spiritual defeat, and of all the strange 
paradoxes that mock our progi'ess ; and we need the 
knowledge as it is spoken by living voices. The con- 
clusions of a former age have power, but the tri- 
umphant utterances of the present will bring a more 
positive solace to those who struggle with conditions 



1906.] 



THE DIAL. 



253 



of to-day. It is the plighted vow of our poets to trans- 
mute the inner glory of thought into outer glory of 
beauty ; it is their privilege to illuminate with a flash 
those things which elude our understanding ; it is 
their mission to grapple with the keenest realities of 
life and with exalted accent forever proclaim the 
supremacy of spirit over '' these rags of clay." 

^Iaktha Hale Shackford. 



COMMUNICA TIONS. 



PEACE TERMS OF THE WAE OF 1812. 
(To the Editor of The Dl\l.) 

There has been sent me The Diai. for March 1, 1906, 
containing a letter from Mr. F. H. Costello, in which 
occur the following sentences : " What led Great Britain 
[in 1814] to consent to peace-terms so favorable to us ? 
The answer is: it was the work of our privateers. Even 
Captain Mahan ... in part admits this." 

Everybody is at liberty to express their opinions, and 
I can have no quarrel with Mr. Costello for his; but, as 
he cites me in support of a view which I do not hold, 
and have not expressed, and as I cannot flatter myself 
that many readers of The Dial will also read my " War 
of 1812," which affords data for a correct conclusion, it 
seems expedient to set the matter right. 

It must be remembered that, although Great Britain 
during the preceding ten years had g^ven us abundant 
cause for war, she did not wish war. It was we who 
declared war, for two reasons: the injuries to our trade 
by the Orders in Council, and the British practice of 
Impressment. In the negotiations for peace. Great Bri- 
tain peremptorily refused even to discuss the questions of 
compensation for the one, or abandonment of the other. 
We relinquished both demands. Here there is nothing 
favorable. We had fought, and lost. 

Although Great Britain had not wished war, yet, hav- 
ing incurred it, she thought she might derive profit. To 
this she was the more encouraged, because the cessation 
of war in Europe, by Napoleon's abdication in April, 
1814, promised at first to release her arms against the 
United States. She therefore presented two demands. 
One was the definitive abandonment of a large part of 
our northwestern territory to the Indians, under her and 
our joint guarantee; the other, the cession to her of part 
of the territory of Maine, and of the military use of the 
Great Lakes. From these she receded; why ? Because, 
as the Duke of Wellington wrote to the ministry, her 
forces at the moment controlled neither the one nor the 
other. The Northwest had been freed by Perry's vic- 
tory on Lake Erie, and the lower Great Lakes* region 
saved by Macdonough's %-ictory on I^ake Champlain. 

Not ha\'ing possession, she coiUd not claim. Why, 
then, not continue the war ? Mr. Costello says. Priva- 
teering. The inner counsels of the British Government 
are unusually well known in this matter, because the 
Minister for Foreign Affairs, who corresponds to our 
Secretary of State, was during this period absent on the 
Continent, conducting negotiations. Consequently, con- 
sultations between him and his colleagues, ordinarily 
held in conversation, or aroimd the council board, were 
carried on by letters. Many of these have been pub- 
lished in the Castlereagh Correspondence. Many have 
not; but these also I have had opportunity to read. 



Nowhere in them do the depredations of our privateers 
find mention, — I do not mean as a motive to peace, but 
mention of any kind. Losses by privateers were then an 
old story to Great Britain. During twenty-one years of 
war with France, she had lost annually in this way an 
average of nearly 500 merchant vessels, as I have shown 
in a former work; while in nearly three years we took 
from her about 1600, a proportion not greatly exceed- 
ing the other. The factor determining her was the fear 
of a renewal of the European war, owing to disputes 
between the states that had just overthrown Napoleon; 
to which contributed the marked disposition of the Czar, 
then the most powerful Continental ruler, to be influ- 
enced in his course by prepossession toward America, 
which made him so far antagonistic to Great Britain in 
the existing Congress of Vienna. These conditions dis- 
posed Great Britain to get the American quarrel off her 
hands ; but the sole circumstance favorable to us in the 
terms of peace was that she relinquished claims which 
could be made good only by further fighting, and this 
the European conditions made inexpedient. 

The importance of this matter, which alone requires 
my reply, is that such a claim as Mr. Costello makes is 
but too consonant to our American tendency, to trust to 
improvised means of war, and is therefore dangerously 
misleading. Save for the victories of Perry and Mao- 
donough, Great Britain would have held territory, and 
might have made good her demands. She had to recede 
from them, not because of privateering, but because on 
the Lakes our navy was equal to hers, and at times 
superior. There too, she, trusting to improvised means, 
came out behind, as we did in our hopeless inferiority 
on the ocean. Should we again elect a pohcy which in 
the future, as then, shall leave us decisively inferior to 
our maritime competitors, the lesson will be repeated, 
despite all the privateers that may exist; just as the 
Southern Confederacy fell, although its cruisers had 
driven the sailing commerce of the Union from the seas. 
To say this may be " to beUttle our work in the War of 
1812," to use Mr. CosteUo's words; but it is wholesome 
and necessary truth, none the less. x. T. Mahak. 
Pau, France, March 28, 1906. 



THE ALTHOR OF " HAWAIIAN YESTERDAYS." 

(To the Editor of The Dial.) 
In bis review of " Hawaiian Yesterdays," by Dr. 
Henry Munson Lyman, published in your issue of 
April 1, Mr. Bicknell notes one or two errors. I am 
impelled to ask you to supplement his review by this 
word of e3q)lanation. 

The book in question was arranged after the death 
of Dr. Lyman, late in 1904, from a memoir he had 
written as a recreation in the few leisure hours of a 
most busy life without other thought than that of giving 
pleasure to his own family — and to a few intimate 
friends. The preparation of the manuscript for the 
press was imdertaken by one of his daughters as an act 
of filial piety ; and the book necessarily lacked the 
revision of its author, whose written and spoken En- 
glish was a life-long deUght to his friends. 

Mr. BiekneU's hope that the cheerfid yesterdays 
might be followed by confident to-morrows has passed 
into an article of faith by all who knew this beloved 
physician, — for wherever high thoughts and gentle deeds 
and peace and love remain, there he will have found a 
^ome. Sara Andrew Shafer. 

La Porte, Indiana, April 9, 1906. 



254 



THE DIAJ^ 



[April 16, 



t Htfaj %aak5. 



The Masterliness of Mastery.* 

On taking up Mr. Alonzo Rothschild's hand- 
some volume on "Lincoln, Master of Men," 
one can hardly help wondering why it should 
have been thought worth while to devote so large 
and impressive a book to so obvious and well 
recognized an aspect of Mr. Lincoln's character 
and achievements. The book seems to be put 
forth with an air of novelty, both as to title and 
" treatment, — as though bringing out something 
very important that had been previously over- 
looked ; whereas there is no good biography of 
Lincoln that is not itself, apart from the general 
history of the times that it may contain, the 
story of his mastery of men. From liis youth to 
the tragic end of his life, he is pictured by every 
fit biographer as rising from obscurity to wide 
influence and undying fame through his mastery 
over the harsh conditions and the strong men 
that surrounded him. They all tell of his early 
triumphs of physical strength through which he 
mastered the Clary's Grove gang and similar 
lawless spirits, and made them his loyal friends 
and supporters ; of the proof of his leadership 
shown in his election as a captain in the Black 
Hawk war ; of his legislative career and his rise 
to the leadership of his party in Illinois ; of his 
rivalry with Douglas, who, though victorious in 
the early senatorial contest, was vanquished by 
Lincoln in the struggle for the far greater prize 
of the Presidency ; of his relations as President 
with the strong men of his cabinet who tried to 
manage him but found in him a master who man- 
aged them, and who was the real, not nominal, 
head of his administration ; and of his trials with 
incompetent and unsuccessful generals, whom, 
patient and long-suffering as he was, he did not 
hesitate to get rid of when their unfitness was 
apparent or they would not or could, not give 
single-hearted obedience to their commander-in- 
chief. These are the things to which Mr. Roth- 
schild devotes his book. He has given us nothing 
new in matter, and his grouping throws no new 
light on Lincoln's career or character ; while the 
book, with its reiteration of the word, makes no 
deeper impression of Lincoln's mastery over men 
than does the plain biography that does not use 
the word at all. The thing itself pervades the 
whole career of Lincoln, and frequent mention 
of it tends rather to irritate the reader than to 
increase his appreciation of the quality. 

•Lincoln, Master OF Men. A Study in Character. By Alonzo 
Rothschild. With portraits. Boston : Houghton, Mifflin & Co. 



The theme is treated in eight chapters with 
more or less fanciful titles. " A Samson of the 
Backwoods" gives an account of Lincoln's early 
struggles and triumphs ; " Love, War, and Pol- 
itics " carries him to his leadership of the Whig 
party in Illinois ; " Giants, Big and Little" nar- 
rates his rivalry with Douglas from their young 
manhood to the day of Lincoln's great triumph 
when Douglas held his hat through the inaugura- 
tion ceremonies ; " The Power behind the Throne" 
is of course Seward, and " An Indispensable 
Man" is Chase; while " The Curbing of Stan- 
ton " conveys an altogether wrong impression of 
Lincohi's relations with his great war minister ; 
"How the Pathfinder Lost the TraO " tells the 
story of Fremont and his lamentable failure as 
general and politician ; " The Young Napoleon " 
is General McClellan, and the story of his fail- 
ures and of his intimate and often touching per- 
sonal relations with his superiors is told at length, 
though of course one-sidedly, as appears in the 
title, which in itself conveys a sneer. In fact, 
the book is one-sided throughout, — a piece of 
special pleading, brilliantly done, but without 
great historical value. The author has selected 
the salient points in Lincoln's career and strung 
his entire treatment of them on this thread of 
" mastery." He has a real gift for popular his- 
torical writing, and has made every chapter inter- 
esting, especially to one who already knows 
enough of the details of Lincoln's life to be able 
to fit what is here told into its relations with 
affairs in general. But it must be said that these 
character studies of Lincoln's rivals cannot be 
taken as true to life; the treatment is partial 
and pre-determined, those characteristics and 
qualities being brought out that are demanded 
by the author's thesis. The result is in each 
case, — notably those of Seward and Stanton, — 
that an altogether false idea is given of these 
men and their relations with their chief. The 
impression is left, perhaps without the author's 
intention, not that they were strong men work- 
ing heartily together for one great cause, though 
with frequent differences of opinion, but that the 
relation was essentially one of rivalry, ending in 
"mastery" on one side and defeat on the other. 
Lincoln is made to stand out preeminent, as of 
course he should ; but one cannot get from these 
studies, elaborate as some of them are, any ade- 
quate idea of the greatness of his great cabinet 
ministers. One who knows well the history of 
the time can supply this for liimseK, and to liim 
the chapters are interesting and not without 
value; but it needs this broader knowledge to 
keep the reader from distorted ideas of the great 



1906.] 



THE DIAI. 



255 



men who held up Lincohi's hands through the 
trials and struggles of the war. 

AVhat has been MTitten thus far, though in- 
tended as a fair statement of the plan of the 
book and the ine^'itable disadvantages of this 
plan, would, if no more were said, fail of doing 
it justice. The author tells his ston^ with zest 
and force ; the book has life, and the material 
cannot but be interesting, for it deals with the 
most attractive personality that America has pro- 
duced and the most exciting and critical period 
of American history. It abounds with well-chosen 
anecdotes, and with the interesting personal items 
that give life to biography. Occasionally the 
rhetoric is strained through effort to be vivacious 
in style, but this is not a serious blemish on the 
work. Its mechanical form is notably excellent, 
especially the portraits ; and there is an abimd- 
ant apparatus of bibliography, notes, references, 
and index. The bibliography and citations of 
authorities are indeed fuller and better than any 
other that we know. Charles H. Cooper. 



Japan's Axciext Religiox.* 



There is the same danger and the same diffi- 
culty in interpreting ancient life in the Sunrise 
Archipelago, and thus influencing our estimate 
of the modem Japanese, that pertains to all ap- 
praisement of a nation coming into notice from 
unlettered savagery through a later alien cul- 
ture. One who studies the Norsemen, or any 
Christianized people who received their writing 
with their new religion, must beware of accept- 
ing exotic and after-thoughts for primitive con- 
ceptions. The official Japanese of to-day would 
have us believe that the original Alikado-clans 
in Nippon had much the same ideas about im- 
perialism that are held to-day. The uncritical 
or average foreign \\Titer knocks all chronology 
into a cocked hat, and puts nursery and fairy- 
tale theories in the place of science and progres- 
sive development. 

Mr. TT. G. Aston, in his volume entitled 
" Shinto, the Way of the Gods," proceeds on a 
totally different principle. He was one of those 
yovmg Englishmen who, fresh from the imiver- 
sity. set up a literary laboratory in Tokio in 
1870, almost as soon as that city received its 
name. After long residence in the empire, and 
profound researches in tradition and text, man- 
ners and customs, literature and art, Chinese, 
Japanese, and foreign, he has given in this book 



•Shixto. the Way of the Gods. 
York : Longmans, Green, & Co. 



By W. G. Aston. Xew 



his ripened conclusions. No one is equipped 
for correct perspective in the study of Japanese 
who is not measurably familiar with those Chi- 
nese texts from which the early Japanese writers 
(who must needs, out of pride, imitate the great 
Chinese ci\Tlization beyond seas) extracted the 
rhetorical bombast and gold embroidery with 
which to adorn their scanty insular traditions. 
The Kojiki, chiefly a collection of myths, was 
set down from memory, in Chinese phonetics, in 
the year 712 A. D. It contains, for the most 
part, the pure " Japanese " view, with legend 
and data for partial reconstruction of early 
Yamato institutional life. The Nihongi, written 
by islanders who had some Chinese scholarship, 
re-sets the same primitive legends and fairy-tales 
(which are accepted by the average Japanese 
as sober history) in the elaborate apparatus of 
Chinese cosmogony, philosophy, and rhetoric. 
The change is as of a picture-frame of impainted 
pine to Florentine gilt. Lest we be accused of 
exaggerating what the modem Japanese would 
have us believe concerning the antiquity of his 
" nation " — which had no real existence until 
the fusion of many tribes of divers ethnic origins 
after the eighth century. — we note that the 
honored Coimt Okuma, once premier and head 
of the Waseda University, habitually, and even 
as late as in " The Independent " of January 
25, 1906, speaks of " our twenty-five hundred 
years of vrritten history." The italics are ours. 
What the islanders of the archipelago, called 
in comparatively modem times •' the Japanese," 
were before the intellect of the dominant tribe 
was f ertilize<l by the contact of the Aryan intel- 
lect (in the form of Buddhism, an Aryan re- 
ligion), and also with Chinese ethics, philosophy, 
and general science, is seen in this masterly book, 
which is written with ftdness, scholarly coolness, 
and judicial accuracy. Had Mr. Aston chosen 
to swell his fewer than 400 pages into an ency- 
clopaedia, he were well able to do it. But he has 
been content to tell only what is known of this 
primitive cult. Shinto had no ancestor-worship, 
because the islanders had no family life or ances- 
tral system, such as were already elaborated in 
China. Those who have studied the later his- 
tory of the God-way well know how the dogmas 
of the paramount Yamato race were harnessed 
as steeds to draw the chariot of imperialism. 
Shinto notions cooperated with the weapons of 
iron against the men in the stone age, whose 
primitive mental conceptions were even ruder 
than those of their conquerors, whose ancestors 
came from beyond sea — possibly from the Sun- 
gari valley in Asia. 



266 



THE DIAL 



[AprU 16, 



Mr. Aston appraises critically the sources for 
the study of Shinto, showing that the materials 
in European languages before the later foreign 
scholars, who studied on the soil of Japan, are 
very nearly worthless, because they deal with the 
Buddhaized, or " Riobu," Shinto. He treats 
further of personification, the deification of men, 
the functions of the gods, myth and mythical 
narrative, nature and man deities, the priest- 
hood and worship, morals, law, and ceremonial, 
closing with a view of those inevitable products 
of decay that belong to all dying or dead re- 
ligions. He is strong in showing how " the 
misunderstanding of metaphorical language is a 
fertile source of apotheosis," and proves that the 
deification of the Mikado is a case in point. He 
is a veritable genius in illustrating the works of 
desolation that the stupid man in religion has 
everywhere wrought. Notwithstanding the over- 
praise of the Japanese, the stupid man is fright- 
fidly in evidence in this island country, which 
is so much " the land of the gods " that it has 
over eighty million deities, with a census of de- 
mons and spirits whose figures would stagger 
calculation. From the spell of these " gods," the 
average Japanese is as yet far from being deliv- 
ered. Even Mr. Stead, who would have us be- 
lieve that the Japanese are paragons of efficiency 
beyond the dreams of the Anglo-Saxon, mixes 
up " gods " and men for our admiration, in a 
way which demonstrates that these " gods " and 
the everyday Japanese are one and the same. 

In his arrangement of the book, with its abun- 
dant translation of ancient text and ritual, all 
well indexed, we have just what the volimie 
professes to be — a handbook for the study of 
Shinto. Our own judgment, after reading and 
re-reading this work, is that there is nothing to 
compare with it for the critical study of the 
primitive conceptions of the Nippon islanders 
and for the institutional history of the Yamato, 
or Mikado-clans ; while at the same time the 
southern or Polynesian outlook is almost entirely 
ignored or neglected by Mr. Aston. The study 
of the traditions and languages of that great 
drift of humanity inhabiting peninsular Asia, 
and Insulinde, or island Asia, will yet throw, we 
are persuaded, much new light on primitive 
Nippon. We are glad to notice that the French 
author Revon, in his latest work on Japan, 
"Le Shinntoisme" (the title is tautological, 
for the to in Shinto has the same force as ism 
in " Buddhism"), has begun an examination of 
the oceanic side of Japan's most ancient written 
^ ory. William Elliot Griffis. 



The Founder of Modern Landscape 
Art.* 

Landscape painting has reached its highest 
development witliin but little over a century, and 
may therefore be considered as a product of our 
own times. The ancient peoples of Egypt, of 
Greece, and Rome knew very little of landscape 
art ; nor did the painters of mediaeval times know 
much more. The great men of the Renaissence 
used landscape in their backgrounds, and used it 
weU ; but it was always subordinate to the cen- 
tral theme. They painted very few independent 
landscapes. The landscapes of the Dutch in 
later days are conventional in treatment, though 
often very beautiful in color. 

It is most interesting to reflect that a simple 
English painter. Constable, all unknowingly came 
to be the founder, or at least the earliest inspi- 
ration, of the greatest school of landscape art 
the world has ever known. His latest biogra- 
pher, Mr. Sturge Henderson, has shown in a 
very clear and interesting way the sources of 
Constable's art. The simplicity of the tale adds 
not a little to its charm. In his life, as in his art. 
Constable was as simple as Wordsworth. In the 
themes he chose for his paintings he followed in 
the footsteps of the poet who wrote of dancing 
daffodils and of the primrose by the river. 

There was in most of Constable's greater 
works the spirit of homely life upon a farm in 
Suffolk. There was no exceptional feature in the 
landscape to make it grand or striking ; it was 
the landscape of home, with great trees and wide 
skies full of cloud masses, and beneath them 
spreading meadows and gently sloping hillsides. 
Almost always there was a farmer coming home 
with his horses and his hay- wain, or a milkmaid 
with her cows. Often mndmills or watermiUs 
formed the central subject ; for the artist loved 
old mills and mill dams, with their slimy posts 
and brick-work falling to decay, and he himself 
says that the banks of the Stour, abounding in 
such scenes, taught him to paint before he even 
touched a pencil. The painting of landscape was 
a later development of Constable's work ; for he 
began as a portrait painter, and was fairly suc- 
cessful in that most difficvdt field of art. Perhaps 
it was from this work that he gained his knowl- 
edge of drawing ; but the love of landscape was 
always predominant in him, and as soon as he 
could he gave up everything else and devoted 
himself entirely to the painting of landscapes. 

It is a very interesting fact that the homely 

♦Constable. By T. Sturge Henderson. Illustrated. New 
York : Imported by Charles Scribner's Sons. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



267 



Constable, and not the brilliant Turner, his con- 
temporary, influenced the French masters. It 
was his •• Hay Wain."' which was shown at the 
Salon in Paris in 1824. that made a sensation 
and '• created a division in the school of land- 
scape painters in France." Mr. Ruskin is not 
pleased with the drawing of Constable nor does 
he greatly like his color; whereas he lauds Turner 
to the skies. Nevertheless, ^Millet, perhaps the 
greatest of the Barbizon school, follows Constable 
closely in many ways ; for he too was a lover of 
the home, and he cared for his peasants of Nor- 
mandy or of Barbizon just as Constable loved 
his Suffolk farmers. The value of the sky in 
landscape was deeply appreciated by Constable, 
and he was always studj^ing clouds in their ever- 
varying aspects. In ^Millet's '* Angelus * ' the sky 
has nearly as much to do with the marvellous 
power of the picture as the peasants themselves 
praying with bowed heads. 

The Frenchmen who found inspiration in Con- 
stable's works had a far better technique than 
he, for there was no Ecole des Beaux Arts in 
England. It was not in technique, but in thought 
and purpose, that the simple English master so 
deeply impressed the painters of the school of 
1830, who produced the greatest landscapes the 
world had yet known ; and in these simple qual- 
ities are to be f oimd the fascination and charm 
of Constable's life and of his pictures. He was 
not successfid in marine painting, although he 
attempted such subjects at times. He was ill at 
ease with the vastness and grandeur of the ocean, 
because he did not know the sea as he knew the 
skies and clouds, and the far-reaching meadows 
and dowTis of his home-land. He painted well 
only what was familiar to him in his home-life, 
and here he found subjects great enough to tax 
the utmost resources of his art. 

But little more than half of ]Mr. Henderson's 
book is devoted to the life of Constable and the 
painting of his pictures. In the latter part the 
author gives some very interesting accounts of 
the Lucas Mezzotints, those famous reproduc- 
tions of some of the greatest of Constable's works. 
He also speaks at length of the artist's lectures 
on art, which are interesting but not far-reaching 
in their influence. Few artists are great lecturers, 
and Constable was no exception to the general 
rule. He should never have attempted to criti- 
cize Italian art, which he knew only through 
reproductions. He was somewhat witty at times, 
and rather caustic in his criticisms, — indeed, he 
was accused of being ill-natured, but on the whole 
this accusation is not borne out by the facts. 

In the tenth chapter of the book, Constable's 



influence upon landscape painting is most justly 
and truly set forth, especially in the part which 
deals with his influence upon the French school. 
The author says that Constable's appeal to the 
French artists was that of naturalism, which was 
unique in two respects. Constable fearlessly 
adopted " unpicturesque " localities as subjects 
for his pictures. He also adopted "fresh, bright 
color, which, though the French had admired it 
in the work of the English water colorists, they 
had not attempted to emulate in what they con- 
sidered more serious painting." More than this, 
as the author tells us, " Men of more imaginative 
temperament might find in the plains and hills 
of their native land sentiments other than those 
that he had found ; but it was he who had indi- 
cated the source from which their inspiration 
was to be drawn, and pointed them the way to 
a new kingdom." 

The fact is worth noting Jliat Ruskin made 
the same criticism on Constable that the French 
critics made of ^liUet — that his tastes were 
" low.'" It is strange that the great poet-critic 
of England should have thus spoken of Con- 
stable's art. It is equally strange that the 
learned critics of France shoidd in the same 
words have condemned Millet's work. In the 
light of a new day for landscape art, the "low '" 
has been illuminated by the light of genius 
and has become " high " indeed. This residt is 
simply a tardy appreciation of truth, which in 
art, as everywhere else, must prevail over artifice. 

The beautifid simplicity of Constable's life 
and art are admirably expressed in this book, and 
those who read it carefully will learn much more 
than they have known before about the simple 
and homely but great English master, and how 
his simplicity and truthfulness prevailed in in- 
spiring the greatest landscape art the world has 
ever known. Walter Cranston Larned. 



STrrDEES OF THE IMMIGRATION PROBLEM.* 

One of the most interesting social and eco- 
nomic phenomena of the past four or five years 
has been the enormous increase in immigration 
from European countries to the United States. 
The latest annual report of the Commissioner- 
Greneral of Immigration shows that during the 

• ISOUGBATIOK AXD ITS EFFECTS CPOK THB UNITKD STATBS. 

By Prescott F. Hall. New York: Henry Holt & Co. 

The Problem of the iManGBANT. By James Davenport 
Whelpley. Kew York: E. P. Button & Co. 

The RrssiAS Jew is the Uxited States. Edited by Charles 
S. Bernheimer, Ph.D. Philadelphia: The John C. Winston Co. 

The Jews ik Asiekica. By Dr. Madison C. Peters. Philadel- 
phia: The John C. Winston Co. 



258 



THE DIAL 



[April 16, 



fiscal year ending June 30, 1905, considerably 
over a million men, women, and children of for- 
eign birth landed at our ports with the intention 
of becoming residents, for a longer or a shorter 
time, among us. This is the first time that the 
million mark has been passed and the dubious 
record has created no little alarm in the minds 
of many people. The mere fact of numbers, 
however, is not the serious thing. A survey of 
the statistics of the subject, running back sev- 
enty or eighty years, wiU show that the volume 
of immigration exhibits a decided tendency to 
periodic swells and depressions, from which it is 
but fair to surmise that we are now just passing 
over the crest of an immigration wave and may 
expect a corresponding falling off within a few 
years. But even if the present remarkable rate 
of increase should be maintained indefinitely 
the important thing would still not be the nimi- 
ber, but rather the- quality, of the new-comers. 
During the past two or three decades there has 
been a striking change in this latter respect. The 
peoples who come to us now are not so much 
those from northern and western as those from 
southern and eastern Europe, — Russian Jews, 
Slavs, and Italians insteatl of Germans, Scandi- 
navians, and British. The full effects of this 
shift cannot at present be foreseen. Certain it 
is that morally, mentally, and materially the 
elements which now dominate are on the whole 
of an inferior type, and there can be no denying 
that their coming brings upon the country sev- 
eral pretty clearly defined, though by no means 
necessarily fatal, dangers. On the other hand, 
we receive no considerable class of aliens that can 
be demonstrated to be lacking in capacity for 
development, and the fundamental test ought 
always to be not so much what the immigrant is 
when he lands at our ports as what he shows an 
aptitude for becoming. 

The problem of the immigrant is one that has 
been always with us. If anyone imagines that 
the alarm now being expressed in many quarters 
is anything new he need only run back along the 
whole course of our national history to observe 
that over and over again the problem of the 
incoming alien has been deemed just as serious 
as it is felt to be to-day. At the same time this 
fact should not become an excuse for indifference. 
Numbers of immigrants fluctuate and quality 
changes, so that the old problem is continually 
developing new asi)ects, and the whole acquires 
a cimnilative character which gives it an ever 
larger interest and practical significance for the 
student and citizen. It is therefore encouraging 
to note that never before has the subject received 



such an amotmt of discriminating attention and 
thoroughgoing discussion as during the past 
twelve months. Not, for example, since the days 
of Chinese exclusion legislation has a president 
spoken upon it so fully or so exj)licitly as has 
President Roosevelt in liis last two annual mes- 
sages to CongTCss ; never before has such a body 
as the National Civic Federation devoted a three 
days' meeting exclusively to the discussion of it ; 
and never has the past year's output of litera- 
ture upon it been approached in either quantity 
or quality. Not only has immigration been 
treated from widely varying points of view in 
many of our best periodicals, but the year has 
seen the publication of the first noteworthy book 
on the subject since the appearance of Professor 
Mayo-Smith's " EmigTation and Immigration " 
in 1890, — and indeed not one book but several. 

First of all may be mentioned the general 
treatise by Mr. Prescott F. Hall entitled " Im- 
migration and its Effects upon the United 
States." This volume is the first in a promising 
series on " American Public Problems " which 
Messrs. Holt & Company annomice under the 
editorship) of Dr. Ralph Curtis Ringwalt. As 
Secretary of the Immigration Restriction League 
in recent years Mr. Hall has had both occasion 
and opportimity to study the immigration move- 
ment in all its essential phases and processes. 
The volume which he has written embodies the 
results of his observations, and is intended to be, 
not an attempt at an exhaustive discussion, but 
simply a handbook presenting in convenient form 
the salient facts concerning the extent, character, 
and effects of our iimnigration to-day. Pretty 
nearly every conceivable aspect of the subject is 
touched upon, with the inevitable result that the 
rule of the strictest brevity becomes inexorable. 
At the same time the book reads well, and one 
is struck by the author's skill in condensation 
where the temptation to more or less diffuse 
writing must have been very great. 

In many ways the most valuable portion of 
Mr. Hall's volume is that which deals with the 
important topic of immigration legislation. After 
a careful presentation of the history of such leg-, 
islation an inquiry is made into the effects of 
our present restrictive laws and the need of new 
enactments to meet new conditions which have 
arisen in late years. It is clearly shown, as any- 
body may easily find out for himself by a little 
investigation, tliat the laws which we now have 
are constantly being violated with impunity by 
interested parties in both Europe and America, 
and this through no fault of the officials who are 
charged with the work of inspection at our ports, 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



259 



but wholly because of the ingenious and semi- 
secret devices employed by transportation agents, 
controllers of labor, and local European authori- 
ties to bring vmdesirable aliens into the United 
States by fraud and deception. Mr. Hall, while 
not an advocate of radical restrictive measures, 
believes firmly nevertheless that it is obligatory 
upon Congress to strengthen our exclusion laws 
at an early date, at least by so much as wiU 
make it possible to keep out persons belonging to 
the ten or more classes ali-eady legally debarred. 

In his " Problem of the Lnmigrant " Mr. 
James Davenport Whelpley has given us a 
volvune which is so obviously usefid that the 
wonder is we have been compelled to wait so 
long for something of its kind. Realizing that 
immigration has generally been contemplated 
far too exclusively from its American side, Mr. 
Whelpley some time ago undertook the more dif- 
ficidt task of investigating the causes and nature 
of the phenomenon in the European countries 
which are the chief origins of our alien influx. 
During the course of the year spent at this task, 
in thirteen different countries, it became neces- 
sary to ascertain what are the precise laws of the 
various nations regidating the admission and set- 
tlement of inmiigrants. We may well believe the 
author when he teUs us that it was foimd very 
difficult to get together the data required, jiartic- 
ularly as the statutes, decrees, and ordinances 
dealing with the subject are almost invariably 
scattered and fragmentary. The task seems, 
however, to have l^een accomplished admirably, 
and it is the results of this investigation, in the 
main, that ^Ir. Whelpley has given us in his 
book. Fourteen nations (including the United 
States) are dealt with one by one, and the plan 
in each case is to give a brief sketch of the con- 
ditions pre^Tiiling respecting immigration and to 
follow this with a translation of the laws now in 
force on the subject. The volume thus becomes 
a most convenient handbook for reference, sup- 
plying the student with a mass of materials not 
elsewhere available in one language or in any 
sort of connected form. 

Two of Mr. Whelpley's chapters are in the 
nature of general discussion. One of these, re- 
published from '' The North American Review," 
affords a very useful summary of the immigra- 
tion and emigration laws of Europe, with some 
exposition of the spirit in which they are adminis- 
tered. The other, which originally appeared as an 
article in " The Fortnightly Review," exploits the 
authors conception of immigration as an inter- 
national affair calling for concerted international 
action . The interesting thesis is laid down that 



" to police the world for the purpose of putting 
a wholesome restraint upon emigration is within 
the power — even now within the line of duty — 
of the greater nations. ' The author urges that 
a binding international agreement should be 
entered into as the most certain means of encour- 
aging a high standard of admission for immi- 
grants, preventing the spread of disease from one 
country to another, checking undue acti>'ity on 
the part of transportation agent*, compelling 
each nation to assimie responsibility for the care 
of its own defectives and delinquents, and in- 
ducing the amelioration of political or economic 
wrongs which operate in certain countries to stim- 
ulate an vmdue amount of emigration. The idea 
is an attractive one, and as time goes on it bids 
fair to assume a more practical character than it 
may appear at present to possess. It is at least 
significant that, among other things in connection 
with immigration reform. President Roosevelt in 
his last annual message declared himself in favor 
of an international conference to deal with the 
immigration question, which he agrees '* has now 
more than a national significance." 

Happily for the student of social problems we 
are at last beginning to have exhaustive first- 
hand treatises on specific inunigration topics. 
The best of these which has yetsappeared is '• The 
Russian Jew in the United States," planned and 
edited by Dr. Charles S. Bemheimer. The vol- 
ume opens A^dth three illuminating essays, — one 
on '■'■ Elements of the Jewish Popidation of the 
United States," by Henrietta Szold, another on 
" The Jew in Russia " by Peter Wiemik, and a 
third on '' The Russian Jew in the United States " 
by Abi"ahani Cahan. All are written out of a 
wealth of precise information and, though deeply 
sympathetic, exhibit a perfectly sane and fair- 
minded spirit. By far the most valuable portion 
of Dr. Bemheimer 's book, however, is a series of 
studies on the condition of the Jewish immigrant 
popidation in the three great urban centres of 
New York, Philadelphia, and Chicago. These 
have been prepared by men and women whose 
practical knowledge and experience give them a 
rare degree of authority. The topics treated in 
connection with the Jewish population of each 
of the three cities are varietl and comprehensive, 
embracing economic and industrial conditions, 
religious activity, philanthropy, educational in- 
fluences, amusements and social life, politics, 
health and sanitation, law and litigation, and 
geographical distribution. There is likewise an 
interesting account of the rural settlements which 
have been established by Jews in many parts of 
the country ; also a fairly full bibliography. Now 



260 



THE DIAL 



[April 16, 



that the United States has come to possess the 
third largest Jewish population among the na- 
tions of the world, the publication of such a body 
of investigations ought to be hailed as a real 
service by everyone concerned with our coointry's 
tasks and fortunes. 

In his little volim[ie entitled " The Jews in 
America "Dr. Madison C. Peters has given us a 
readable but superficial sketch of the part which 
the Jews have had in the development of the 
United States from colonial times until the pres- 
ent. In war, politics, diplomacy, finance, let- 
ters, art, and science the American Jew has 
taken an indisputably high place, and it is much 
to be regretted that the recent celebration of the 
two hundred and fiftieth anniversary of Jewish 
settlement on this side the Atlantic has not 
called forth a book more worthy of the subject, 
— one in which we might indeed find sympa- 
thetic appreciation but less pf a disposition to 
glorify indiscriminately. Aside from the very 
brief chapters on the characteristics of the Jews 
as a people and the prevalence of anti-semitism 
in America, what we have in Dr. Peters's book 
is little more than an enumeration of two or 
three hundred men of Hebrew race who have 
contributed in some marked way to our national 
life, together with paragraphs of a general 
nature emphasizing their services. The results 
are so interesting that one cannot but wish that 
the work had been more thoroughly done. 

Frederic Austin Ogg. 



The Discoverer of the St. IjAavrexce.* 

Dr. James Phinney Baxter had already added 
so materially, and effectively, to our knowledge 
of the exploration and early history of the North 
Atlantic coast of America, that one was predis- 
posed to welcome favorably his latest, and in 
some respects most ambitious, work, on the voy- 
ages of Jacques Cartier to the St. Lawrence. A 
(Careful reading of the book serves to confirm the 
first impression. Dr. Baxter has given us what 
may almost be regarded as the last word on the 
great navigator of St. Malo. His work is author- 
itative. It shows on every page the results of 
close and scholarly study of the original docu- 
ments ; and it throws not a little new light on the 
moot points of the narratives of the several voy- 
ages. Inevitably, his conclusions will not be 
accep table to everyone. Historians and histor- 

• A Memoir op Jacques Cartier, Sieur de Limoilu ; his Voy- 
ages to the St. Lawrence ; a Bibliography and a facsimile of the 
manuscript of 1534, with annotations, etc. By James Phinney 
Baxter, A.M. Illustrated. New York: Dodd, Mead & Co. 



ical students have their full share of himian na- 
ture ; they never have seen, and never will see, 
all alike. But both they and the less critical, 
though not always less discerning, "general 
reader" must be grateful for such a real addition 
to the sum of human knowledge as a volume of 
this kind represents. 

Dr. Baxter introduces his work with a schol- 
arly memoir, in wliich are gathered together the 
scanty details of Cartier's life. As with so many 
of the world's great explorers, very little is 
known of Jacques Cartier beyond what may be 
gathered from the narratives of his several voy- 
ages. Even the year of his birth has been in 
dispute, though it is now generally accepted as 
1491. About the only light that the records of 
his native town throw upon his early life is that 
afforded by the Registres de I'etat civil, in 
which his name appears in connection with no 
less than fifty-three baptisms, in twenty-seven of 
which he acted as godfather. This, as Dr. Baxter 
says, affords striking evidence of the high esteem 
in which Cartier was held by the people of his 
native town. In the St. Malo of the sixteenth 
century a baptism was an event of some impor- 
tance, and the man who was twenty-seven tunes 
honored with the responsible position of godfather 
must indeed have been a universal favorite. 

At the age of twenty-eight Cartier married 
Catherine, daughter of Jacques des Granches, 
high constable of St. Malo. He was already a 
man of mark in liis town, having won the title of 
master pilot. Dr. Baxter conjectures that he had 
even now taken part in some of the fishing voyages 
to the far-away shores of the New World, gaining 
thereby that skill in navigation which he after- 
ward so signally exhibited. 

Of the fifteen years of Cartier's life between 
his marriage and the voyage of 1534, even less 
is known, if possible, than of the j^ears of his 
youth and early manhood. From the frequent 
mention of Brazil in his Voyages, it is believed 
that he must have visited South America during 
this period, probably with one or more of the 
Portuguese expeditions ; a supposition which is 
supported by the fact that in 1528 his wife stood 
sponsor for a " Catherine de Brezil," a yoimg 
native believed to have been brought by Cartier 
from that coimtry on one of his voj^ages. It is 
also noted that Cartier frequently acted as Por- 
tuguese interpreter at St. Malo. 

For many years the only known accoimt of 
Cartier's first voyage was that contained in Ra- 
musio's great work of 1556, translated a few 
years later into English by Florio. It was not 
until 1867 that the original relation turned up. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



261 



in the Bibliotheque Imperiale at Paris. This . 
was printed the same year under the title " Re- 
lation Originale du Voyage de Jacques Cartier 
an Canada en 1534." Of the "■ Relation Origi- 
nale " Dr. Baxter gives an excellent translation ; 
and, not content with this, adds what to the stu- 
dent will be of still greater interest and service 
— a photographic copy of the original manu- 
script. This manuscript bears convincing inter- 
nal evidence of being a contemporary docimient. 
It has even been thought to be the original nar- 
rative, in Cartier's own handwriting. To this 
view Dr. Baxter takes exception, though he does 
not say on what grounds. 

The first published account of the second voy- 
age was the •' Bref Recit " of 1545, afterward 
included by Ramusio in his " Navigationi et 
Viaggi." Of this voyage there exist at least three 
contemporary manuscript accounts, all in the 
Bibliotheque Nationale at Paris. Upon a care- 
ful comparison of the three manuscripts with the 
•' Bref Recit '" Dr. Baxter foimd that the three 
manuscripts were substantially the same, but 
they differed from the '• Bref Recit " in a nimi- 
ber of important particidars. It seemed desir- 
able therefore to put aside the printed narrative, 
and translate what appeared to be the best of the 
three manuscripts. This Dr. Baxter has done. 

The onl}- account of the third voyage (1540) 
is that contained in Hakluyt — who also gives an 
account of each of the previous voyages. This 
fragment, for it is nothing more. Dr. Baxter has 
also printed. We find, therefore, in his book 
a translation of the original manuscript of the 
first voyage, a translation of the best of the three 
relations of the second, and the only known 
account of the third. The text of these three 
narratives he has enriched with copious notes, 
the result of a close study of all the evidence 
available. 

As to Cartier's alleged fourth voyage, Dr. 
Baxter has this to say : 

" That he made a fourth voyage to Canada to bring 
back Roberval, although no account of such a voyage has 
been preserved, has been thought probable by a report 
of an Admiralty Commission appointed on the 3rd of 
April, 1544, to audit his accounts. . . . Roberval and 
Cartier were summoned to appear before them, and their 
decision in favour of Cartier was rendered on the 21st 
of Jime following. The allowance had been asked by 
him on account of ships employed in the third voyage, 
and an additional allowance on account of another 
vessel employed in a subsequent voyage. A copy of the 
application made to the Commission has not been pre- 
served, but the report makes it clear what this subse- 
quent voyage was for," i. e., on account of a ship used 
*« for eight months to fetch the said Roberval." 

Dr. Baxter is inclined, on the whole, to dis- 



credit this fourth voyage, or perhaps rather to 
regard the claim as " not proven." In this con- 
nection it may be mentioned that the Canadian 
Archivist has lately unearthed at Paris a nimi- 
ber of hitherto unknown documents bearing on 
Cartier and his voyages. Copies have not yet 
been received from Paris, and it is not possible 
to say what additional light they may throw 
on the subject ; but if they include anything 
authentic ^s-ith regard to the alleged fourth 
voyage, or filling in the wide gaps in the third 
voyage, their publication will be eagerly awaited 
by everyone interested in historical research. 

In the French archives, and elsewhere, there 
exist a number of contemporary documents, 
bearing more or less directly upon the Cartier 
voyages. The most important of these Dr. 
Baxter has translated and added to the nar- 
ratives. The importance of preserving such 
dociunents is emphasized by the fact that many 
invaluable manuscripts, known at one time to 
have been in the French archives, have disap- 
peared. It may seem unfair to single out the 
French archives in this way ; but unf ortimately, 
although losses have occurred in the archives of 
every country, they are as nothing compared to 
those which the Archives of France have sus- 
tained. At the time of the Revolution, cart- 
loatls of these precious records were literally 
dumped out on the street, to be used for lighting 
fires. Even so recently as 1815 it is related that 
an official of the government, desiring room for 
his secretary, sent a vast collection of ancient 
manuscripts to " Les epicieres de Versailles," 
and another sold entire files by weight for his 
private gain. It is probable that many vital doc- 
uments eagerly sought by historians for years 
may have been destroyed in this way. 

To sum up the contents of Dr. Baxter's very 
interesting and important work, it includes a 
scholarly memoir by the editor; complete and 
accurate translations of the Voyages of 1534, 
1535-6, and 1540; a facsimile of the manu- 
script narrative of the first voyage ; Cartier' s 
Vocabulary of the Language of the Natives of 
Canada ; Roberval's Voyage of 1542 ; the 
course of Jean Alphonse, Roberval's pilot ; a 
collection of Collateral Documents, translated 
from the French and Spanish ; and a Grenealogj- 
of Cartier" s family. To these are added a 
Bibliography, an Itinerary of the Voyages, and 
an an^ytical Index. 

The work is elaborately Ulustrated by charts, 
facsimiles of manuscripts, and reproductions 
of old plates, — all on Japan paper, splendidly 
executed. The doubtful portrait of Jacques 



262 



THE DIAL 



[April 16, 



Cartier, the original of which hangs in the 
Hotel de Ville at St. Malo, is used as a frontis- 
piece. 

Of the make-up of the book it would be im- 
possible to speak too highly. It is one to de- 
light the heart of the lover of good books and 
good book-making. It gives an appropriate 
setting to one of the really important historical 
books of the year. Lawrence J. Burpee. 



Recext Fiction.* 



The capacity for indignation is a fine quality, in 
literature no less than in life, but the subject upon 
which it is employed must be one that raises no doubt 
concerning the moral issues involved. Mr. Upton 
Sinclair, in his war story of ''Manassas," found in 
the abolitionist movement one of the finest of possible 
themes, and gave us a singularly forceful embodi- 
ment of the passion for righteousness. When, how- 
ever, he takes for his theme the labor conditions of 
a great modern industry, and imports into his treat- 
ment the same heated methods that were so proper 
in the treatment of the curse of slavery, we feel that 
the issue is clouded, and that to produce the impres- 
sion desired, he must resort to exaggeration and falsi- 
fication, appeal to narrow prejudice, and have recourse 
to all manner of sensational expedients. This does 
not seem to us an unfair statement of what his method 
has been in "The Jungle," which deals with the 
packing industries of the Chicago stock yards, and 
eventually turns out to be an undisguised contribu- 
tion to the propaganda of socialism. In substance, 
the book tells the story of a Lithuanian immigrant, 
from the time of his arrival in America to that of 
his enrollment in the ranks of socialist agitators. 
. Diu-ing this time he is employed in various capacities 
in Packingtown, suffers about every sort of misery 
that a lively imagination could devise, is brought 
several times into the clutches of the law, becomes a 
hobo, a hold-up man, and a politician, after which 
rake's progress he settles down as one of the avowed 
enemies of society as it now exists. This scheme 
permits the author to indulge in a frantic onslaught 
upon pretty nearly every phase of the present social 

•The Jungle. By Upton Sinclair. New York: Doubleday, 
Page & Co. 

The Quickening. By Francis Lynde. Indianapolis: The 
Bobba-Merrill Co. 

The Sage Brush Parson. By A. B. Ward. Boston : Little, 
Brown, & Co. 

The Sea Maid. By Ronald Macdonald. New York : Henry 
Holt & Co. 

Double Trouble. Or, Every Hero his Own Villain. By 
Herbert Quick. Indianapolis : The Bobbs-Merrill Co. 

The Patriots. The Story of Lee and the Last Hope. By 
Cyrus Townsend Brady. New York: Dodd, Mead & Co. 

The Lake. By George Moore. New York: D. Appleton &Co. 

The Healers. By Maarten Maartens. New York: D.Apple- 
ton & Co. 

The Angel op Pain. By E. F. Benson. Philadelphia: The 
J. B. Lippincott Co. 

Fishers op Men. By S. R. Crockett. New York : D. Apple- 
ton & Co. 



'order, and he utilizes his opportunities to the utmost. 
We doubt if much good is to be done by this sort of 
ex parte treatment, however real some of the griev- 
ances may be, and assuredly no balanced and intel- 
ligent observer will agree in anything like its entirety 
to this wholesale indictment of industrial and social 
conditions. It is too obviously colored for effect, too 
wilfully blind to the many forces for good which are 
steaddy at work counteracting the evils whose exist- 
ence we readily admit. Mr. Sinclair's horrors are 
not typical, and his indecencies of speech are not 
tolerable in any book that has claims to considera- 
tion as literature. He has evidently " got up " his 
case with much pains and ingenuity, but he spoils it 
by his excess of bias and vehemence. Nor are we 
willing to admit that a work is a novel in any proper 
sense which does little more than exhibit a technical 
familiarity with certain trades, and is forever declaim- 
ing against wrongs, real or imagined. In all the 
essential qualities of good fiction this book is con- 
spicuously lacking. Its figures are puppets, its 
construction is chaotic, its style is turgid, and its truth 
is more than half falsehood. Now that the author 
has relieved his mind, we trust that he will turn 
again to his war story, and complete the work that 
was so admirably begun a year or two ago. 

"The Quickening," by Mr. Francis Lynde, offers 
once more the familiar story of the unregenerate 
country boy and the dainty maiden who becomes for 
hiin the one woman in the world, and whom he mar- 
ries after the inevitable years of misunderstanding. 
There is also, of course, the usual rival, the youth 
bred in the refinements of civilization, polished with- 
out and corrupt within. The scene is Tennessee, and 
the time our own, which is a departure from the 
usual practice of setting the action far enough back 
to send the hero to the Civil War. It is in the mod- 
ern industrial war of promoters and capitalists that he 
wins his spurs instead, but the outcome is to the same 
general effect. The story is pleasant and genuine. 
"The Sage Brush Parson," by "A. B. Ward," 
is the story of an English dissenting preacher, who 
feels that he can best accomplish his mission for the 
saving of souls by deserting his unsympathetic wife, 
going to America, and establishing himself in a 
Nevada frontier community. Here he finds material 
a-plenty for his missionary efforts, and, being a good 
deal of a man at bottom, he wins the respect of his 
rough neighbors, and comes to have a strong influ- 
ence over their lives. They test him in various ways, 
and he always proves game. The town includes in 
its population a small group of people of wealth and 
refinement, one of them being a woman, and her 
friendship for the preacher becomes the oasis in the 
desert of his emotional life. We think that she is a 
widow, although we are never quite able to find out ; 
she thinks that he is unmari-ied, and discovers her 
mistake under very tragic circumstances near the 
close of the book. For the deserted wife appears 
upon the scene, nags her husband until he wishes 
that she were dead, and then, in a quarrel, kdls her- 
self with their child out of pure spite, knowing that 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



263 



his remorse will charge him with blood-guiltiness. It 
does indeed, for, when accused of murder, he pleads 
guilty, to the amazement of his friends, and is about 
to be hanged when the truth is brought to view. 
There is much strength in this vivid narrative, com- 
bined with humor, realistic description, and incisive 
■characterization. 

The desert island story seems to be acquiring vogue 
•once more. Its latest variant is " The Sea Maid," 
by Mr. Ronald Macdonald. which tells how the Dean 
of Beckminster and his aUing wife sailed for the anti- 
podes in 1883, and for nearly a quarter of a century 
remained unheard from, and naturally mourned as 
dead. As a matter of fact, they had been ship- 
wrecked upon an uncharted island, and so contrived 
to adapt themselves to circumstances that when they 
are discovered they are found to be leading a reason- 
ably comfortable existence. TVe hast«n to mention 
that there is a daughter, born upon the island, and 
now grown to beautiful womanhood without ever 
having seen other human beings than her parents. 
This Miranda is the •• sea maid " of the title, and 
when her Ferdinand turns up, the natural conse- 
quences follow. His appearance is contrived by a 
mutiny on board a steamer in the Australian trade, 
with the marooning of ofl&cers and passengers upon 
the same unknown island, which happens to be con- 
veniently at hand. Here is a piquant situation, and 
it is developed with ingenious success, albeit with a 
certain extravagance of humor. For sheer enter- 
tainment this story is one of the best of the year, 
and it is by no means devoid of the qualities that 
appeal to the literary sense. 

The troubles experienced by the hero of " Double 
Trouble," a story by Mr. Herbert Quick, are of the 
sort known to the gentleman whose personality alter- 
nated between that of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. In 
other words, the story is of a dual personality, told 
without anything of Stevenson's psychological in- 
sight, but nevertheless with a very pretty gift of 
invention. Florian Amidon, a banker of Hazelhurst, 
Wisconsin, starts on a journey. He has not got very 
far when he suddenly and mysteriously becomes 
somebody else. In his new character, it seems, he is 
Eugene Brassfield. and \Arith that name he wanders 
to BeUevale, Pennsylvania, settles down, lives for 
several years, and becomes a leading citizen. One 
night, while on his way to Xew York, he falls out of 
his berth in the sleeper, and the shock awakens bim 
as Amidon, his existence as Brassfield becoming a 
complete blank. But his clothes, the papers foimd 
in his pockets, and the reception he meets when he 
reaches New York, all afford convincing evidence 
that he is Brassfield. One letter, in particular, shows 
him that he is engaged to marry a girl of BeUevale, 
who has the most unbounded affection for him. In 
his perplexity, he consults a pair of hypnotists — a 
German professor with a lovely daughter — who find 
that the Brassfield personality emerges when he is 
put to sleep under their influence. By taking notes 
of what he says during a succession of these trances, 
thev construct for him an outline of his Brassfield 



life and character, and impart the facts to him after 
he is awakened. Armed with this material, he re- 
pairs to BeUevale, accompanied by his friends the 
hypnotists, and with the help of the notes suppUed 
him, tries to fit himself into the existence concerning 
which his memorj' has nothing to teU him. The 
resulting compUcations are extremely amusing, and 
keep the reader's interest alert to the end. The 
story, moreover, has a crisp and animated style that 
adds greatly to the charm. As for the quotations 
from imaginary poems that preface the chapters, 
they are, if anything, more diaboUcaUy ingenious 
than the prose narrative. We can assure the reader 
of this tale much satisfaction. 

One does not like to say imkind things about Mr. 
Cyrus Townsend Brady's romantic fictions, even if 
he does write far too many of them to write any of 
them carefuUy, and even if their appeal is quite 
obviously made to a rather low level of appreciation. 
They are nice stories, after aU, not devoid of interest, 
and fairly reeking with wholesome sentiment. The 
writer has, moreover, a pretty knack of working 
up his historical argument, and he has reaUy read 
widely and wisely in American annals. "The Pa- 
triots " is a story of the Civil War, having Lee for its 
historical hero, and a young Confederate officer for 
its romantic hero. The scenes chiefly described are 
Pickett's charge at Gettj'sburg. the struggle in the 
WUderness, and the final operations about Richmond- 
There are two heroines, both charming, and the right 
one wins the contested object of their common wor- 
ship. Dr. Brady thinks that a writer at this day 
need make no apology for extolling the character of 
that great leader and true-hearted gentleman who so 
valiantly maintained the last hope of the Confederacy 
as long as any hope was possible, and we quite agree 
with him. Barring the one fatal mistake of judg- 
ment (or of sjTupathy) which aUgned him with the 
foes of the Union, the career of Lee earned for him 
the respect, the admiration, and almost the love, of 
North no less than of South, and there is no one of 
us who may not be proud of claiming him as a 
feUow-countryman. 

The story of the priest, to whom the meaning of 
life is revealed after his vows are taken, and who 
deserts his calling in response to the imperative 
mandate of natural instinct, is the stor\' of "The 
Lake," Mr. George Moore's recently-published noveL 
The story is anything but a new one, and readily 
lends itself to sensational and unwholesome treat- 
ment. In the present case, the handling is not sen- 
sational, but is not altogether free from the charge 
of unwholesomeness. Father Gogarty is in charge of 
a poor parish in Connaught, and among his parish- 
ioners is a young woman who sins, and is in conse- 
quence driven from her home, largely by the sternness 
of the priest's denunciation of her conduct. Repent- 
ing him of his severity' upon reflection, he enters 
into correspondence with the girl, and during the 
course of this correspondence, he comes to realize 
that the very vehemence of his accusation had been 
the outcome of unconscious jealousy, that he had 



264 



THE DIAL 



[April 16, 



denounced her more because of the stirrings of love 
in his own breast than because of horror at what she 
had done. The gi'eater part of the story is told in 
the letters which these two exchange, letters which 
permit the author to discuss not only matters of 
religion and ethics, but also of art and music. The 
two never meet again, but the self-searchings evoked 
by their correspondence determine the priest to 
abandon his profession and go forth into the world, 
a man among men. He makes his escape by swim- 
ming across the lake one summer night, leaving it 
to be supposed that he has been drowned, but in 
reality making his way to a seaport, and embarking 
for AJnerica. Here the story ends. It wiU be seen 
that its interest is almost purely psychological, and 
that the theatre of its action is Father Gogarty's 
mind rather than the community in which his lot is 
cast. And although the language is at times appall- 
ingly frank, it must be admitted that the spirit of 
the treatment is in general one of artistic restraint. 
The style has the simplicity and transparency that 
betoken the accomplished craftsman in words, and 
the author's feeling for nature is expressed as 
admirably as his feeling for art and life. We 
doubt if Mr. Moore has ever done a better piece of 
writing. 

We have read " The Healers " with mingled de- 
light and exasperation. The Dutchman who writes 
in English under the style of " Maarten Maartens " 
has a wealth of wholesome and tender sentiment, a 
fund of genial observation, and a flow of unfailing 
himtior. These qualities make every one of his books 
noteworthy, and the latest is no exception to the rule. 
With all these gifts to lavish upon a novel it seems 
to us sheer wantonness that he should also make use 
of the sensational devices connoted by such terms as 
telepathy and clairvoyance, and should even resort to 
such cheap wonders as planchette-writing and table- 
tipping. These things are wrought into the very 
fabric of his new novel and weaken its logical foun- 
dations. For a serious purpose underlies the play- 
fulness of this book, a purpose which finds expression 
in the following proposition : " As a rule, the medical 
is the least conservative of the professions, for in their 
utter incertitude and tomfoolery of ineffective nos- 
trums the doctors naturally snatch at any new chance 
of an accidental success." But the tomfooleries of 
medicine are highly respectable in comparison with 
those of popular superstition, which are here put for- 
ward as a substitute. We are thus bound to repu- 
diate the book in its would-be serious aspect, and 
fall back upon the entertaining invention, the acute 
characterization, and the combined humor and pathos 
that it offers. The characters are Dutch and En- 
glish, the scenes Leyden and Paris ; there is a curious 
resemblance to " God's Fool " in the study of the 
defective chUd, gradually awakened to a kind of life, 
as a moral, if not as a thinking, creature. 

We must condemn Mr. Benson's " The Angel of 
Pain " on grounds similar to those that make " The 
Healers " so ineffective. Here is a story of English 
life' well-proportioned and skUfidly told, working 



with strength and insight toward a striking consum- 
mation, having for its motive the development of the 
finer qualities of manhood through the ministry of 
suffering, and keeping, for the most part, a firm 
grasp upon the realities of life. But into this other- 
wise sane, although possibly overwrought, narrative 
there is injected an element of the most fantastic 
superstition. One of the characters, who has deserted 
society for the contemplative life, enters into so close 
a communion with nature that he comes to hear in 
very truth the shrill notes of Pan's flute, and at last 
sees the god face to face, only to be crushed to death 
in his shaggy embrace. This incident is not repre- 
sented as resulting from a crazed fancy; it is given 
us as equally credible with incidents of the ordinary 
sort, and is supported by the evidence of eye- 
witnesses. Now Mr. Benson does not believe this, 
or anything like this, to be possible ; he has simply 
spoiled a story of genuine human interest by a reck- 
less indulgence in sensational imaginings. He has 
done the same sort of thing once before, and if he 
do not pull himself together in time, he wiU come 
near to ruining his hitherto creditable reputation as 
a minor novelist. 

Mr. Crockett's latest invention is something of a 
novelty. Instead of finding its theme in Scotch 
Covenanters or Spanish Carlists, it plunges us into 
the slums of modern Edinburgh, and makes us ac- 
quainted with the gentry whose profession is crime, 
and whose chief object in life is to escape the gal- 
lows. We have described a school for the training 
of thieves that makes the establishment of the late 
Mr. Fagin seem primitive indeed. We have also a 
modern Oliver Twist — one " Kid McGhie " — who 
is an interesting little chap, and who insinuates him- 
self quite closely into our affections. Side by side 
with this study of the criminal environment, we have 
depicted the correctives of settlement and reforma- 
tory, whereby the story becomes justified in its title, 
"Fishers of Men." But all these matters do not 
account for more than half of the varied interests 
of the story, which also provides us with types and 
situations belonging to a very different social sphere. 
Abundance of exciting incident ( sometimes close to 
melodrama), a well-sustained plot, shrewd charac- 
terization, and genial humor all combine to make 
this book one of the most entertaining that Mr. 
Crockett has ever written. 

William Morton Payxe. 



Briefs ox New Books. 



An Enatish A new " History of the Civil War in 

AmeHcaJ''" ^^e United States, 1861-1865," by 
Civil War. W. Birkbeck Wood and Major J. E. 

Edmonds, two English army officers, is published in 
America by the Messrs. Putnam. The problems of 
the American CivU War have had, during recent 
years, special interest for British soldiers ; and this 
volume is, like Colonel Henderson's work on Stone- 
wall Jackson, a result of the scientific study of the 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



265 



battles and campaigns of that conflict. The Intro- 
duction, by Mr. Spencer Wilkinson, makes some state- 
ments that lead one to expect more than the authors 
perhaps intended. They take little notice of politics 
and diplomacy, of social and economic conditions, 
but confine their attention strictly to military history. 
A separate chapter deals with the naval operations 
of the war. The numerous maps and battle-plans 
are instructive, but not always accurate. To Amer- 
icans, the value of the book is to be foxmd mainly in 
the judgments arrived at by competent critics who 
are thoroughly impartial on all questions. Their 
disinterested views on matters of controversy are 
worthy of the most serious consideration. The deep- 
lying causes of the war are more clearly seen by 
them than by those nearer the scene of trouble. 
"Mason's and Dixon's line," they say, "was some- 
thing more than an artificial boundary between 
slavery and emancipation. It had come to be a 
geographical boundarj'-line between two separate 
peoples. The character, institutions, and interests 
of the North and South were as different as those of 
any two neighboring nations." Leaders and policies 
of each side come in for moderate criticism. Lincoln 
is criticised for interfering with his generals for polit- 
ical purposes ; Davis, for allowing his own views on 
military matters to embarrass the operations of his 
generals. Throughout the book, emphasis is laid 
upon the mistake of Davis in insisting on a strictly 
defensive fight while waiting for foreign recognition. 
A defensive policy prolonged the agony ; it could not 
win the war. On the other hand, the Washington 
government feared too much for the safetj' of the 
capitol, and this gave the Confederates the oppor- 
tunity to defend Richmond by demonstrations in 
the far-away valley of the Shenandoah. The Con- 
federates are commended for the way in which their 
leaders cooperated with one another, in sharp con- 
trast with the jealousy among the Federal com- 
manders ; but they are condemned for their too 
defensive policy, for their neglect of their western 
frontier, and for placing too many men, who were 
afterwards captured, in the fortresses guarding the 
rivers. The estimates of the leading generals are fair 
enough, Lee and Jackson are the great mUitarj- fig- 
ures of the war ; next come McClellan, Grant, and 
Sherman : the two Johnsons and Stuart are not so 
important, the authors think, as the Southerners 
consider them ; Halleck was a fraud : Longstreet is 
pronounced slow ; and the opinion is ventured that 
had Jackson been with Lee at Gettysburg, they would 
have won. The decisive factor of the war was the 
Union Navy, which blockaded the coast and broke 
the Confederate lines along the rivers. The authors 
are mistaken in saying that the Abolitionists gave 
Lincoln an enthusiastic support and " supplied the 
Northern armies with their best soldiers." The 
work contains no new material, it makes little use of 
the official records, and it shows nothing striking 
as to arrangement or presentation ; but it is a useful 
condensation of the best military histories and is 
illuminated by much judicious comment. 



Lockhart, never prodigal of praise. 
Letter* chiefly once characterized Richard Ford's 

guidebook to Spain (in its original 
voluminous form) as " the work of a most superior 
workman, — master of more tools than almost any 
one in these days pretends to handle "; and in its 
pages he found " keen observation and sterling sense 
with learning a la Burton and pleasantry a la Mon- 
taigne." Thus one would expect "The Letters of 
Richard Ford" (Dutton), as edited and annotated 
by Mr. Rowland E. Prothero, to furnish some good 
reading; and the expectation is not disappointed. 
Living and travelling in Spain from 1830 to 1833, 
Ford wrote frequent letters to his friend, Henry Un- 
win Addington, then British Minister at the Court of 
Madrid, and he continued the correspondence after 
his return to England. These letters, carefully treas- 
ured by Addington, have recently come into the pos- 
session of the writer's widow, and are now published 
at her desire. The Torrijos insurrection and other 
political and military' disquietudes helped to make 
Ford's stay in Spain an eventful one. A summer and 
autumn were spent by him and his family as tenants 
of a small part of the Alhambra, whence letters of a 
picturesque quality were despatched to his friend in 
Madrid. Returning to his more permanent quarters- 
at Seville, Ford thus describes the difficulties and 
dangers of the journey : '' We have at length arrived 
here safely, God be praised I through the deepest 
ploughed fields, worst Veritas, and stoutest gangs of 
robbers in aU Spain. We have been six mortal days 
on the journey, doing some 36 leagues at an expense 
of 6000 or 7000 reals, having fed 29 persons every 
night, ravenous wolves who never ate before and 
probably never will again unless some Milor or £m~ 
hajador should make that journey ..." The let^ 
ters show their writer to have been something of a con- 
noisseur in feminine beauty. It may be added in pass- 
ing that he thrice, in a comparatively short life, bent 
his neck to the matrimonial yoke. The letters from 
England, after his return home, describe with viva- 
city and wit his literary pursuits, which were chiefly 
in the way of writing reviews and special articles for 
the " Quarterly," the *' Ekiinburgh," and other prom- 
inent journals. Five years were devoted, intermit- 
tently, to his Spanish guidebook. The illustrations 
accompanying these letters are from sketches, draw- 
ings, and paintings, but not from Ford's hand though 
he was no contemptible draughtsman. They are in- 
teresting, and not merely decorative. Two Alham- 
bra drawings by the first Mrs. Ford are especially 
pleasing. On the title-page is printed, after Ford's 
name, " 1797 — 1858," although both the editor and 
other authorities give his birth-year as 1796. 



... . , Mr. Andrew Lang's versatility is no 

A di*entangler f . V,, , . 

of the secret longer a matter of surprise. Of his 

of the Totem. many fields of enterprise, the one 
most frequently cultivated leads him into the inter- 
esting domain of the early psychology of man.. 
In his latest venture, the quest is for " The Secret 
of the Totem" (Longmans), a perplexing quarry 



266 



THE DIAL 



[April 16, 



with mysterious haunts. Mr. Lang's methods are 
the sturdy ones held in high esteem by the Anglo- 
Saxon mind, quite aptly described as an exalted 
common-sense. Penetration is no adequate substi- 
tute for thoroughness ; but it is the better half of 
what should be a joint equipment for the chase. 
Whatever the totem comes to mean in more elabo- 
rately organized communities, its simpler status is a 
tribal relationship, with its fundamental service in 
the regulation of the eligibility of marriages between 
near of kin. It is a totem-kin at all events, — how- 
ever variable a relation that term may cover. The 
next query relates to the primitive condition of man 
before this type of marriage-restriction was insti- 
tuted : whether of large promiscuous herds, or of 
small unit groups rided by one or a few male patri- 
archs. Mr. Lang, with Darwin and many others, 
adheres to the last named supposition. Somehow 
from this relation there developed a system in which 
the men of one group could take as wives only those 
of another ; and the designation of each was that of 
the animal to whose totem each belonged. The name 
is ever a potent influence in savage psychology, and 
animals are held in high esteem ; but the institution 
prompted the name, not the converse. Why animal 
names were chosen is no more of a mystery than that 
we stiU speak of the inhabitants of three adjoining 
states as Badgers, Gophers, and Wolverines. In oppo- 
sition to the view that the totem marriage-restriction 
was either a moral one or an innate response to the 
dangers of in-breeding, Mr. Lang posits it as an 
outgrowth of the necessity of the young males to look 
elsewhere for partners, and of coming to look in 
convenient or preferred tribes. The rest of the asso- 
ciations with the custom, as well as the complex group 
of tales and rites and beliefs that attach to the rela- 
tion, grow naturally out of the psychological habits 
of primitive man. There is more to the theory than 
this ; and its application to the facts, and its accounting 
for the exceptions and crossing with other customs, 
make the whole an intricate tale upon which the 
author of "The Disentanglers " has spent his cus- 
tomary ingenuity. 

The unhappy life and tragic death of 

'^rM:.T8tu:rt. ^^^y ^^^^^ «* Scots are a perennial 
source of literary and romantic as 
well as of historic interest. The past year adds to the 
already long list two new biographies. One of these, 
written by Mr. A. H. Millar and imported by the 
Messrs. Scribner, is best characterized by the con- 
cluding sentence of the preface : " To explain fully 
the conditions under which her life was passed is not 
possible within limited space, but an honest attempt 
will here be made to place the events of her che- 
quered career faithfully before the reader, so that 
he may draw his own conclusions." The book is, in 
the main, a careful and not too detailed presentation 
of facts. Regarding the famous Casket Letters, for 
example, Mr. Lang's conclusion is cited, that " while 
some portions of the most incriminating letters are 
genuine, these have been tampered with," and the ad- 



ditional important fact is stated that neither Norfolk 
nor Sir Francis Knollys laid stress upon them. — 
The second of these biographies, by Miss Hilda T. 
Skae (published by Lippincott), is less judicial in 
tone. Referring to the episode just spoken of, we 
find the statement, " Mary must be prevented from 
appearing in her own defence. . . . No originals of 
these documents were asked for; nor, supposing 
they had ever existed, do they appear to have been 
seen since the date of their alleged discovery. . . . 
The Conferences neither established nor disproved 
Mary's guilt ; but they served the purpose of giving 
publicity to charges which her detractors were only 
too interested in spreading." (The italics are the 
reviewer's. ) This is certainly an attempt to bias 
opinion in Mary's behalf. The full truth, however, 
will never be known. The student cannot but won- 
der, sometimes, whether Schiller's poetic insight has 
not given a fairer appreciation of Mary's character, 
despite the fact that he dealt with historic material 
with the utmost freedom and invented the three 
points upon which the plot of his tragedy turns, than 
is to be gained by searching the archives and follow- 
ing the devious mazes of political intrigue that deter- 
mined the career of the beautiful and unhappy queen. 

The storv of "^ distinctly notable contribution to 
a wayivard OUT comprehension of the vicissitudes 

personaiitv. Qf personality has been made by Dr. 
Morton Prince in his story of " The Dissociation of 
a Personality " (Longmans). Professor James has 
given a classic description of the manner by which 
an individual becomes the complex self that he is by 
the several furtherings and relinquishments of the 
possible selves that he might have been; and thiis 
the unity of our personality may well be said to be 
an achievement, however natural a one. The storm 
and stress period of an impressignable adolescence 
precipitates these struggles of inner conflict, com- 
plicated by outer circumstance. The story of Miss 
Beauchamp is that of a young woman in whom these 
several potentialities — conflicting embodiments of 
a complex and abnormal nature — alternately and 
interferingly took command and divided the house 
against itself. The assimilative processes became 
grouped about several centres with complex relations 
to one another ; and the " eccentric " selves, neglect- 
ing and antagonizing the interests, each of the other, 
gave rise to many a hopeless conflict in the practical 
arena. The several characters thus selfishly shaping 
their several fortunes developed such opposed char- 
acteristics that Dr. Prince acknowledges the tempta- 
tion to call his book " The Saint, the Woman, and 
the Devil." Most startling of all is the revelation 
that the Miss Beauchamp who sought his professional 
aid, then a college student whom her friends thought 
" queer," but yet one of themselves, proved to be but 
a variant of the original Miss B., who was at last 
discovered as the rightful heir of this personality 
disinherited by a violent hysterical attack, and in the 
end restored to her OAvn, and the several rivals ejected. 
It takes five hundred images to disentangle these 



1906.] 



THE DIAL. 



267 



threads, and to prove that truth is stranger than fic- 
tion, and yet more coherent. This "biographical 
study in abnormal psychology " is most discerningly 
portraved, and is recommended alike for the fasci- 
nation of the theme and the insight that it affords 
into the methods by which psychology comes to the 
aid of practical treatment and diagnosis. Yet the 
■whole story is but the abnormal development, vrrit 
large, of what in miniature phase we all recognize 
as a factor in the genesis of self-expression. By no 
means the slightest service of the volume will be that 
of showing the kind of analysis that alone is adequate 
for an understanding of the wawardness of our 
wonderfuUv and fearfullv made minds. 



The story of 
a Platonic 
friendship. 



A truly Platonic friendship between 
two boys is related in language so 
choice and beautiful as almost to 
>mack of preciosity-, by Mr. Forrest Reid — a name 
that has a somewhat pseudonymous look — in his 
sumptuous little quarto entitled "The Garden Grod," 
which is published by 'Mr. David Nutt of London in 
a limited edition of 250 copies. The hero of this 
prose poem is Graham Iddesleigh, who seems to have 
been early inf ecte<l with the divine madness described 
in the " Phaedrus," — the madness caused by a re- 
newed vision of that supernal beauty wherein the 
soul revelled in its unembodied state. This madness, 
finding in Harold Brocklehurst a living embodiment 
of that faintly remembered beauty, issues in a friend- 
ship at once vehemently passionate and absolutely 
pure. The untimely death of Harold leaves his friend 
inconsolable; and so the story of their love, told 
thirty years after by the mourning survivor, is an 
elegy, though in prose. The memory of the beauti- 
ftd youth is not to die " without the meed of some 
melodious tear." We have been assured, by one who 
is no mean poet himself, that we do poets and their 
song a grievous wrong if our own soul does not bring 
to their high imagining as much beauty as they sing. 
"'The Garden God" is emphatically the kind of 
book to which one must bring a spirit of sympathy, 
a submission to the tale-teller's magic spell. The 
friendship described is as transcendently beautiful 
as that pre-terrestial loveliness whereof the Platonist 
has fleeting glimpses, and which the Wordsworth- 
lover is dimly conscious of as having its dwelling in 
*' the light of setting suns, and the round ocean, and 
the living air, and the blue sky, and in the mind of 
man." ' Exactly who or what the garden god is, re- 
mains a little vague. One thing at least is certain : 
it is neither Priapus nor Yertxmanus. But lest any 
attempted explanation should end only in further 
befogging the question, it shall here be left to the 

ingenious reader. 

Balthasar Hiibmaier has been here- 
tofore sadly neglected in the bio- 
graphical literature of the English 
language relating to the Protestant Reformers of the 
Sixteenth Century ; and of the two published biog- 
raphies of him, one is in the Bohemian language and 
the other is in German. The Reverend Dr. Henry 



A hero and 
leader of the 
Reformation 



C. Tedder, Professor of Church History in the Crozer 
Theological Seminary, has laid all students of reli- 
gious history under obligation to him for his contri- 
bution of a life of Hiibmaier to the series of *' Heroes 
of the Reformation" (Putnam). The difficulties 
encountered in the preparation of the book have not 
been easily overcome, for the bibliography of the sub- 
ject contains few works in the English language. 
While not the founder of the sect of Anabaptists, and 
while himself repudiating that title as recognizing 
the validity of infant baptism, Hiibmaier was the 
leader of the sect, was recognized as such in his day, 
and rose to the distinction of being fourth on the list 
of heretics whose works were placed by the Roman 
Church on the "Index Librorum Prohibitorum," in 
1616. He was at one time friendly with the Swiss 
Reformers, but later engaged in controversial writ- 
ings with Zwingli. He entered upon his task of re- 
form in 1523, which left only five years of his life 
for that work, for he suffered martyrdom as a leader 
of the Anabaptists, by burning, on the 10th of March, 
1528. His life of about fortj'-seven years was wholly 
spent in Switzerland and in the valley of the Dan- 
ube, and was lacking in incident ; but twenty-six of 
his writings are extant, and to bring the volume up to 
the standard size set for the series, an appendix has 
been added containing his excursus " On the Sword " 
and his " Hymn," — the latter both in German and 
in English translation. With its numerous illustra- 
tions the book gives an interesting picture of certain 
phases of the great Protestant Reformation not to be 
found elsewhere. 

. , - The second volmne of the new and 

jl ffreat reference . • ,. . «. /-i tn- . 

work of Music revised edition of "Groves Diction- 
€tnd Musicians. ^^ ^f Mnsig and Musicians " (Mac- 
millan) amply confirms the promise of the first, 
which has been reviewed at considerable length in 
The Dial. The amount of new matter contained 
in these volumes will be apparent when it is con- 
sidered that in the same alphabetical limits are in- 
cluded 1594 pages, as compared with 950 in the 
original first and second volumes. All the subjects 
of general interest and the most important biogra- 
phies not only have been greatly extended but they 
are illuminated with more careful analysis and schol- 
arly criticism. The work now comes down to the 
letter M, and the second volume includes 361 new 
biographies besides about 100 miscellaneous items. 
It is gratifying to note the generous space devoted 
to American musicians. Arthur Foote, Stephen Col- 
lins Foster, Patrick S. Gihnore, Frederick Grant 
Gleason, Leopold Godowsky, Louis Moreau Gk)tts- 
chalk, Asger Hamerik, Heldne Hastreiter, Victor 
Herbert, Richard Hoffman, Clayton Johns, Edgar S. 
Kelley, Franz Kneisel, Henry E. KrehbieL Benjamin 
J. Lang and his daughter Ruthven, and Charles M. 
Loeffler, are awarded both generous space and treat- 
ment. It will be pleasant to all American musical 
scholars to find that Stephen CoUins Foster, the most 
distinctive and purely original of all American com- 
posers with the possible exception of Billings (the 



268 



THE DIAL 



[April 16, 



father of American psalmody, who, it is to he re- 
gretted, was not included in the first volume) is prop- 
erly recognized as deserving a place in the Grove 
Pantheon ; and all Chicagoans will be glad to see 
that Frederick Grant Gleason has been awarded a 
similar honor. Mr. Gleason was a musical scholar of 
great learning and a composer of high ability, whose 
work will receive ampler recognition in the future 
than it did while he lived and worked so modestly 
and sincerely. In any dictionary of this kind there 
will naturally be some omissions, but they are very 
few in the new Grove, and no exception can be taken 
to the scholarly character both of the revised and 

the new matter. 

The love of When Mr. Horatio F. Brown writes 

Venice and its of Venice, we are sure of something 
modern charm, g^^jj . ^nd his latest work, " In and 
Around Venice" (Imported by Scribner), justifies 
all expectations. Although Mr. Brown feels thor- 
oughly the ever-fleeting, ever-varying charm of this 
wonderful city, unique among all the cities of the 
world, he does not write simply of its picturesque 
aspects. He is learned in all the lore of the region, 
historical, geographical, practical, and artistic. The 
history he divides into four great periods, — of con- 
solidation, of empire, of entanglement, and of decline. 
Most brilliant of these, of course, was the second. 
Then it was that Venice emerged victorious from her 
struggle for the Eastern empire; then wealth was 
pouring into her coffers and bringing in the pomp 
of art, the pageantry of existence, her palace fronts 
along the Grand Canal, her learned academies, her 
printing-press, her schools of painting, her regal 
receptions, the splendor of her state functions, the 
sumptuousness of private life, — all, in short, that 
made her what she was, the dazzling pleasure-garden 
of Europe, the envied of other states. But her great- 
ness and pride led on to her downfall ; ceasing to be 
the mart of Europe, she gradually wasted away till 
she was but a wreck and hollow show of her former 
glory. Nevertheless, our own Venice, the Venice of 
to-day, has a charm all its own ; and it is with this 
that the present work chiefly concerns itself. There 
are interesting chapters on the old Campanile, both 
before and since its fall ; chapters on each of the two 
columns which guard the Piazzetta, on Knockers, 
on PUes and Pile-driving, on Fetes, etc. The latter 
half of the book is given to the surrounding country 
and villages, such as the river Brenta, the Eugenean 
Hills, and Istria. The illustrations, though not nu- 
merous, are very satisfactory, and are in direct rela- 
tion to the text rather than merely ornamental, as so 
often is the case in books of this kind. 



Frequenters of Mount Desert, who 
■j^ ^o'»\o,nttc know it only as a cool and salubrious 

island history. '' i » i ■ 

summer resort on the Atlantic coast, 

will enjoy reading its quaint traditions and stirring 
history in the volume entitled " Mount Desert : A His- 
tory " (Houghton), for which Dr. George E. Street 
gathered the material, and which, since Dr. Street's 
death, another enthusiastic Mount Deserter has ed- 



ited. A memoir of Dr. Street and the editor's pre- 
face give some account of the pains that have been 
taken to make the history complete and accurate and 
the illustrations varied and interesting. French ex- 
plorations, Jesuit settlements, the visits of the Indians 
who were the earliest settlers to use the island as a 
summer resort, the warfare between New England 
and New France, the coming of Tory proprietors, — 
all make romantic chapters, full of lively interest. 
With the division of the island into townships, a more 
prosaic era begins ; but Dr. Street has managed to 
find material for two readable chapters dealing re- 
spectively with the life of the farmers and fishermen 
whose peaceful ownership of the islands was dis^ 
turbed by the advent of the summer colonies, and 
with the island 's churches. The rapid development 
of the various summer resorts, from the simple begin- 
nings of the sixties and seventies, is briefly chron- 
icled. The whole history is simply and interestingly 
told, and is attractively illustrated with artistic views 
of island scenery and with portraits of explorers as 
old settlers. There is also an excellent map. 

In the world ^^ ." ^^^ Canterbury Pilgrimages '^ 
of Chaucer's ( Lijjpincott ) Mr. H. Snowden Ward 
ptigrims. j^^g sought to accomplish a double 

purpose : first, to discuss the history of the martyr- 
dom and cult of St. Thomas of Canterbury ; secondly, 
to describe the pilgrims to his shrine and the routes 
taken by them. His first task is performed in about 
a third of the book. The volume contains little that 
is new ; but the author tells well the tragic story 
of Becket, and portrays vividly the pilgrims to his 
shrine and their diversions, in the form of a running 
commentary on the Prologue and the framework of 
the "Canterbury Tales." Some of the etymologies 
and translations are open to question (e. g., thumb 
of gold, p. 182; yeddings, p. 194); also, may 
Chaucer be said to have written " an astrolabe " 
(p. 147)? A large number of good illustrations 
much enhance the value of the book, which will 
doubtless serve to make the world of Chaucer's pil- 
grims more real, especially to the younger readers 
of to-day. 



Notes. 



A second edition of Mr. George Howell's "Labour 
Legislation, Labour Movements, and Labour Leaders," in 
two volumes, is published by Messrs. E. P. Diittou & Co. 

" The Garden Book of California," by Belle Sumner 
Angier, and a newly revised and enlarged edition of Mr. 
Charles Keeler's " Bird Notes Afield " will be published 
shortly by Messrs. Paul Elder & Co. of San Francisco. 

Two new volumes, making an even dozen in all, ard 
added by the Messrs. Scribner to their " Beacon " edi- 
tion of the writmgs of Mr. F. Hopkinson Smith. " At 
Close Range " and " The Wood Fire in No. 3 " are the 
respective titles, and both are collections of short stories. 

" Men and Things " is the sub-title of a volvime called 
" Mark Twain's Library of Humor," and published by 
Messrs. Harper & Brothers. The contents are selections 
from the writings of some two score American humor- 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



269 



ists, and include pieces in both prose and verse. We 
understand that the " Library " is to include further vol- 
umes, although the one now published affords no indi- 
cation of such an intention. 

A reprint of DaArid Low Dodge's " War Inconsistent 
with the Religion of Jesus Christ," edited by Mr. Edwin 
D. Mead, is a recent publication made by Messrs. Ginn 
& Co. on behalf of the International Union. The orig- 
inal dates from 1812, and was written in protest against 
the impending war w4th England. 

Messrs. Houghton, Mifflin & Co. will issue early in 
May two books not previously announced, i These are 
" Science and Idealism," by Professor Hugo Munster- 
berg, being his recent Harvard address at Yale; and a 
little volume of studies on " The Reading of Shakes- 
peare," by Professor James M. Hoppin of Yale 
University. 

Mr. Bram Stoker's Life of Sir Henry Irving is an- 
nounced for issue in the autumn by the Macmillan Co. 
The two volumes will contain many of Irving's letters, 
and will be illustrated with portraits, stage photographs, 
etc. Mr. Stoker, who is well known as a novelist, was 
for twenty-five years one of Mr. Ir\'ing's closest personal 
friends, and accompanied him on all his tours in the 
capacity of manager. 

The following text-books have recently been published 
by the Macmillan Co. : A two-volimie " Course of Study 
in the Eight Grades," by Dr. Charles A. McMurry; 
" City Government for Yoimg People," by Mr. Charles 
Dwight Willard; "The Principles of Oral English," by 
Messi-s. Erastus Palmer and L. Walter Sammis ; " Mod- 
ern English: Book One," by Mr. Henry P. Emerson and 
Miss Ida C. Bender; "English Grammar for Begin- 
ners," by Professor James P. Kinard; " Advanced Alge- 
bra," by Professor Arthur Schultze ; and " Argumenta- 
tion and Debate," by Professor Craven Laycock and 
Robert Leighton Scales. 

The anonymous novels, " Cahnire " and " Sturmsee," 
heretofore published by the Messrs. Macmillan, now 
come to us in new editions with the imprint of Messrs. 
Houghton, Mifflin & Co. At the same time, there comes 
the revelation of their authoi-ship, for we are told that 
they are the work of Mr. Heni-y Holt. We must con- 
gratulate the veteran publisher upon these books, which, 
as examples of discursive and philosophical fiction, take 
a very high rank. They discuss, between them, nearly 
all the major problems of religion and social science, 
and this with a keenness and sanity deserving of the 
highest commendation. It is not often that a man shows 
himself capable of thinking as clearly, and reasoning as 
intelligently, upon as great a variety of subjects as come 
within the purview of these two novels. 

" Fordham's Personal Narrative of Travels: 1817- 
1818 " is the title of an interesting historical work to be 
published this spring by the Arthur H. Clark Co. of 
Cleveland. This hitherto impublished manuscript, only 
recently brought to light, was written by an obser^Tng 
young English pioneer and explorer, describing his trav- 
els and observations in Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, 
Ohio, Indiana, Kentucky, and Illinois. An introduction 
and notes are to be furnished by Professor Frederic A. 
Ogg, of Harvard. The same firm will also issue shortly 
" Audubon's Western Journal: 1849-1850," recounting 
an overland journey with a party of gold-seekers from 
New York to Texas and through Mexico to California. 
Miss M. R. Audubon and Professor F. H. Hodder 
have supplied a biography, introduction, and adequate 
annotation. 



liisT OT Kew Books. 



[The follomng list, containing 62 titles, includes books 
received by The Dial since its last isstie.} 

BIOGRAPHY AND MEMOIRS. 

Liinooln: Master of Men. By Alonzo Rothschild. With por- 
traits in photogravure, etc., large 8vo, gilt top. pp. 531. 
Houghton, Mifflin & Co. $3. net. 

Five Famous French Women. By Mrs. Henry Fawcett, 
LL.D. lUus., 12mo, pp. 304. CasseU & Co. $2. 

Party Lieaders of the Time. By Charles Willis Thompson. 
With portraits, 12mo. pp. 422. G. W. Dillingham Co. $1.75 net. 

John Witherspoon. By David Walker Woods, Jr., M.A. With 
portrait, 8vo, gilt top, pp. 295. Fleming H. Revell Co. $1.50 net. 

Spirit of the Age Series. First vols. : Whistler, by Haldane 
Macfall; Robert Louis Stevenson, by Eve Blantyre Simpson. 
Each Ulus.. 16mo. John W. Luce & Co. Per vol., 75 cts. net. 

The Story of Princess Des Ursins in Spain. By Constance 
HiU. New edition ; illus. in photogravure, etc., 12mo, gilt top, 
pp. 256. " Crown Library." John Lane Co. $1.50 net. 

HISTORY, 

Old Time Notes of Pennsylvania : A Connected and Chron- 
ological Record of the Commercial, Industrial, and Educa- 
tional Advancement of Pennsylvania, and the Inner History 
of all Political Movements since the Adoption of the Con- 
stitution of 1838. By A. K. McClure, LL.D. Limited autograph 
edition ; in 2 vols., with portraits, large 8vo, gilt tops, uncut. 
John C. Winston Co. $8. net. 

The Rise of American Nationality, 1811-1819. By Eendric 
Charles Babcock. With portrait and maps, 8vo, gilt top, 
pp.339. " The American Nation." Harper & Brothers. |2. net. 

Ancient Records of Egypt : Historical Documents from the 
Earliest Times to the Persian Conquest. Compiled and trans, 
with commentary by James Henry Breasted, Ph.D. Vol. II., 
4to, pp. 428. University of Chicago Press. |3. net. 

GEITERAIi LITERATT7RE. 
Brief Literary Criticisms. By Richard Holt Hutton ; selected 

from the " Spectator" and edited by Elizabeth M. Roscoe. 

With photogravure portrait, 12mo, uncut, pp. 417. " Eversley 

Series." Macmillan Co. |1.50. 
Famous Introductions to Shakespeare's Plays. Edited 

by Beverley Warner. D.D. With portraits, 8vo, gilt top, 

pp. 268. Dodd, Mead & Co. 12.50 net. 
Plays, Pleasant and Unpleasant. By Bernard Shaw. In 

2 vols., 12mo. uncut. Brentano's. $2.50 net. 
The Ghost in Hamlet, and Other Essays in Comparative Lit- 
erature. By Maurice Francis Egan, LL.D. 16mo, pp. 325. 

A. C. McClurg & Co. $1. net. 
Hither and Thither : A Collection of Comments on Books 

and Bookish Matters. By John Thomson. 8vo, gilt top, 

pp. 388. George W. Jacobs & Co. 
The Study of a Novel. By Selden L. Whitcomb, A.M. 12mo, 

pp. 331. D. C. Heath & Co. 11.25. 
Old Tales from Rome. By Alice Zimmem. nius., 12mo, 

pp. 294. A. C. McClurg & Co. $1.25. 

POETRY AND THE DRAMA, 
In Sun or Shade. By Louise Morgan Sill. 8vo, gilt top, 

pp. 226. Hari)er & Brothers. $1.50 net. 
Rahab : A Drama in Three Acts. By Richard Bnrton. 12nio, 

imcut, pp. 119. Henry Holt & Co. $1.25 net. 
Bird and Bough. By John Burroughs. 12mo, gilt top, pp. 70. 

Houghton, Mifflin & Co. $1. net. 
Songs from the Heart. By Alice Adele Folger. nius., 12mo, 

gut top. pp. 59. The Grafton Press. $1.25 net. 

FICTION. 
lAdy Baltimore. By Owen Wister. Illus., 12mo, pp. 406. 

Macmillan Co. $1.50. 
Silas Strong : Emperor of the Woods. By Irving Bacheller. 

With frontispiece, 12mo, pp. 340. Harper & Brothers. $1.50. 
• The Evasion. By Eugenia Brooks F^othingham. 12mo, 

pp. 415, Houghton, Mifflin & Co. $1.50. 
The Spoilers. By Rex E. Beach, nins., 12mo, pp. 314. Harper 

& Brothers. $1.50. 
The Patriots : The Story of Lee and the Last Hope. By Cyrus 

Townsend Brady. HIus. in color, 12mo, pp. 348. Dodd, 

Mead & Co. $1.50. 
A Motor Car Divorce. By Loxiise Closser Hale. Illus. in 

color, etc, 12mo, pp. 319. Dodd, Mead & Co. $1.50. 



270 



THE DIAL 



[AprU 16, 



Saints in Society. By Margaret Baillie-Saunders. 12mo, 

pp. 423. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $1.50. 
Chatwlt, the Man-talk Bird. By Philip Verrill Mighels. 

lUus., 12mo, pp. 265. Harper & Brothers. $1.50. 
The Chateau of Montplalslr. By Molly Elliot Seawell. lUus., 

12ino. pp. 245. D. Appleton & Co. $1.25. 
The Spur ; or, The Bondage of Kin Seveme. By G. B. Lan- 
caster. 12mo, pp. 310. Doubleday, Page & Ck). $1.50. 
Cattle Brands : A Collection of Western Camp-Fire Stories. 

By Andy Adams. 12mo, pp. 316. Houghton, Mifflin & Co. 

$1.50. 
The Castle of Lies. By Arthur Henry Vesey. 12mo, pp. 363. 

D. Appleton & Co. $1.50. 
The House of Shadows. By Reginald J. Farrer. 12mo, 

pp. 335. Longmans, Green, & Co. $1.50. 
Bob and the Guides. By Mary Raymond Shipman Andrews. 

Illus., 12mo, gilt top, pp. 351. Charles Scribner's Sons. $1.50. 
Uncle William, the Man Who Was Shif'less, By Jennette 

Lee. With frontispiece, 16mo, pp. 298. Century Co. $1. 
In the Shoe String: Country : A True Picture of Southern 

Life. By Frederick Chamberlin. Illus., 12mo, pp. 353. CM. 

Clark Publishing Co. $1.50. 
Lady Jim of Curzon Street. By Fergus Hume. 12mo, 

pp. 519. G. W. Dillingham Co. $1.50. 
A Woman's Heart: Manuscripts found in the Papers of 

Katherine Peshconet, and edited by her executor Olive 

Ransom. 12mo, pp. 252. Doubleday, Page & Co. $1.50. 
The Lady of the Well. By Eleanor Alexander. 12mo, pp. 328. 

Longmans, Green, & Co. $1.50. 
The Kentuckian : A Tale of Ohio Life in the Early Sixties. 

By James Ball Nay lor. Illus., 12mo, pp. 385. C. M. Clark 

Publishing Co. $1.50. 
Below the Dead-Line. By Scott Campbell. Illus., 12mo, 

pp. 313. G. W. Dillingham Co. $1.50. 
Their Husbands' Wives. Edited by W. D. Howells and 

H. M. Alden. 16mo, pp. 181. " Harper's Novelettes." Harper 

& Brothers. $1. 
Works of F. Hopkinson Smith. " Beacon " Edition. Vol. XI., 

At Close Range ; Vol, XII., The Wood Fire in No. 3. Each 

illus., 12mo, gilt top. Charles Scribner's Sons. (Sold only 

in sets by subscription.) 
The Man and his Kingrdom. By E. PhUlips Oppenheim. 

New edition; illus., 12mo, pp. 325. Little, Brown, & Co. $1.50. 
A Millionaire of Yesterday. By E. Phillips Oppenheim. 

New edition; illus., 12mo, pp.315. Little, Brown, & Co. $1.50. 
Skiddoo ! By Hugh McHugh ("George V. Hobart"). Illus., 

12mo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 112. G. W. Dillingham Co. 75 cts. 
Argronaut Stories. By various writers. 12mo, pp. 315. San 

Francisco : Payot, Upham & Co. Paper. 50 cts. net. 

TRAVEL AND DESCRIPTION. 
The Sieg-e of the South Pole. By Hugh R. Mill. Illus., 8vo, 

pp. 455. Frederick A. Stokes Co. $1.60 net. 
Holland Described by Great Writers. Compiled by Esther 

Singleton. Illus., 8vo, gilt top, pp. 332. Dodd, Mead & Co. 

$1.60 net. 

THEOLOGY AND RELIGION. 
St. Paul : The Man and his Work. By H. Weinel; trans, by 

G. A. Bienemann, M.A. ; edited by W. D. Morrison, LL.D. 

8vo, pp. 399. " Theological Translation Library." G. P. 

Putnam's Sons. $2.50 net. 
Jesus. By W. Bousset; trans, by Janet Penrose Trevelyan; 

edited by W. D. Morrison, LL.D. l2mo, pp. 211. "Crown 

Theological Library." G. P. Putnam's Sons. $1.25 net. 
The Gospel of Love. By Rev. Edmund G. Moberly. 16mo, 

gilt top, pp. 195. Philadelphia : Nunc Licet Press. $1. 
The Childhood of Jesus Christ. By Henry van Dyke, D.D, 

Illus., 12mo, pp. 123. Frederick A. Stokes Co. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Humanlculture. By Hubert Higgins, M.A. 12mo, gilt top, 
pp. 255. Frederick A. Stokes Co. $1.20 net. 

Ideals for Girls : Talks on Character, L"ife, and Culture. By 
Mrs. Frank Learned (" Priscilla Wakefield "). 12mo, pp. 226. 
Frederick A. Stokes Co. $1. net. 

The Joy of Life. By Lillie Hamilton French. 12mo, pp. 274. 
Frederick A. Stokes Co. 85 cts. net. 

Everyday Luncheons. By Olive Green. 16mo, gilt top, pp. 327. 
" Homemaker Series." G. P. Putnam's Sons. 90 cts. net. 

The Language of the Northumbrian Gloss to the Gos- 
pel of St. Luke. By Margaret Dutton Kellum; edited by 
Albert S. Cook. LargeSvo, pp. 118. "Yale Studies in English." 
Henry Holt & Co. 25 cts. 



How the Bishop Built his Collegre in the Woods. By 

John James Piatt. Illus., 12mo, pp. 74. Cincinnati: Western 
Literary Press. 75 cts. net. 

A Common Sense Hell. By Arthur Richard Rose. 12mo, 
pp. 176. G. W. Dillingham Co. $1. net. 



MSS. 



CRITICISED AND PLACED 

Ilighegt References 
RUTH L. GAINES 

The Century Building, 1 West Thirty-fourth Street, New Yobk 



Authors 
rlgency 

Mention The Dial. I 



I Fifteenth Year. Candid, suggestive 
Criticism, literary and technical Re- 
vision, Advice, Disposal. MSS. of all 
kinds. Instruction. Refebences: 
Mrs. Burton Harrison, W. D. Howells, 
Mrs. Julia Ward Howe, Thomas 
Nelson Page, Mrs. Mary E. Wilkins 
Freeman, and others. Send stamp 
for Booklet to WM. A. DRESSER. 
. 7, 400 Broadway, Cambridtce. Mass. 



STORY- WRITERS, Biographers, Historians, Poets — Do 

-'^— ^— — ^^-^^— — you desire the honest criticism of your 
book, or its skilled revision and correction, or advice as to publication T 
Buch work, said George William Curtis, is " done as it should be by The 
Easy Chair's friend and fellow laborer in letters, Dr. Titus M. Coan." 
Terms by agreement. Send for circular D, or forward your book or MS. 
to the New York Bureau of Revision, 70 Fifth Ave., New York. 



BO OKP 
PLATE^ 



Engraved on Copper, Steel, or Wood 

Antique or Modern Designs. 
Heraldry a Specialty. 

Crests and Coats of Arms. 

ROBERT SNEIDER COMPANY 

143-145 Fulton Street NEW YORK. 

NEW TABLES OF STONE 

And Other Essays. By HENRY M. SIMMONS. Cloth, gilt top, 328 
pages, $1.50 net, postage 12c. [Descriptive circular sent on request.] 

" If any more desirable book for general reading has been issued this 
year, it has not come to the reviewer's notice." — Boston Tranteript. 

" It belongs with Fiske's ' Destiny of Man ' and ' Idea of Ood,' and 
presents certain inspiring aspects of the evolutionary philosophy in a 
stronger and profounder way than those essays." — Edwin D. Mead. 
JAMES H. WEST CO. PUBLISHERS BOSTON 

STUDY AND PRACTICE OF FRENCH in 4 Parts 

h. C. BoMAKK, Author and Pub., 1930 Chestnut St., Philadelphia, Pa. 

Well-graded series for Preparatory Schools and Colleges. No time 
wasted in superficial or mechanical work. French Text : Numerous 
exercises in conversation, translation, composition. Parti. (60 cts.): 
Primary grade j thorough drill in Pronunciation. Part II. (90 cts.): 
Intermediate grade ; Essentials of Orammar ; 4th edition, revised, with 
Vocabulary : most carefully graded. Pari III. (81.00): Composition, 
Idioms, Syntax ; meets requirements for admission to college. 

Pari IV. (35 cts.): Handbook of Pronuneiaiion for advanced grade; 
concise and comprehensive. Sent to teachers /or examinaiion, with a 
view to introduction. 

^^ An uniisual book, which from its unique value has won Us way 
to immediate recognition. 

Science; the Mind 

Revelation; the Heart of God 

Bu ,/. If. HARWELL 

Business Man's Ideas of a Common Belief. 
Pamphlet, 25c 

Jacobs & Holmes. Publishers 

167 E. Adams St., Chicago, 111. 







WILLIAM R.JENKINS 

851 and 853 Sixth Avenue (cor. 48tb Street) New York 

No branch stores 



FRENCH 

and other 
foreign 

BOOKS 



BEAD CUB 

ROMANS CHOISIS SERIES 

26 Titles. Paper 60c., cloth 86c. voL 

CONTES CHOISIS SERIES 

24 Titles. Paper 25c. , cloth 40c. vol. 
Masterpieces, pure, by well-known authors. 
Read extensively by classes ; notes in English. 
List, also catalogue of all publications and 
imported books, on application. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



271 







ENIGMAS OF 
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH 

By PROF. JAMES H. HYSLOP, PluD., LL.D., Vue-Preudent 

of the Society for Psychical Research. 
A comprehensive account of the Investigation of Crystal 
Vision. Telepathy. Dream Coincidents. Apparitions, Premo- 
nitions, Clairvoyance, Mediumistic Phenomena, etc., by that 
eminent group of scientific men composing the Council of the 
Society for Psychical Research. Also 6t/ the same author, 

SCIENCE AND 
A FUTURE UFE 

Based on the astoonding data accumulated by Sir Oliver 
Lodge, Sir William Crooks. Prof. William James. Dr. Richard 
Hodgson, Prof. Sidgwick, Prof. Newbold. F. W. H. Myers, 
Prof. Hyslop, and others, in their investigation of Personal 
Identity in Psychical Phenomena. 

Each, bound in cloth. 11.50 ; by mail, tl.62 each. 
HERBERT B. TURNER & CO., Publishers. Boston. 


THE FRANKLIN BICENTENNIAL 


TKE STANDARD WOSK IS THE 

Life of 
Benjamin Franklin 

Written by Himself 
Edited by Hon. JOHN BIQELOW 

New Fifth Edition Revised and Enriched 

"The life of one of the greatest Americans is pre- 
sented in a form that must be weD-nigh definitive." 
—y^eic York Sun. 

Is Three Haxbsomb VottrMEs, Iij-ustratbd. 
Cloth Boujo). Gelt Top. -$6.00. 




ROOk^S ALL OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS SUPPLIED. 

*^^-'^-' •*■*-'• no nutter on what subject. Write ua. We can get 
yon any book ever publiahed. Please state wanta. Catalogue free. 
BAKER'S GREAT BOOK-SHOP, 14-16 Bright St, BrewTTiSHxic, Exe. 


Written dearly, frankly, and vcithout prejudice. 

THE TRUE 
BENJAMIN FRANKLIN 

By SIDNEY QEORQE FISHER 

IlLUSTKATEI). 8vO. ClOTH, $2.00. TTatp LEVANT, $5.00. 




WORK IN A LIBRARY 

Its pleasures and duties : How and what to 
study for it. Read PUBLIC LIBRAELES. 
a practical journal, monthly. $1. a year. 
Sample copy sent free. 

PUBLIC LIBRARIES 

156 Wabash Avenue CHICAGO 


J. B. Lippincott Company, Philadelphia 










THE BOOKS 
OF ALL PUBLISHERS 

are carried in our stock, 
which is larger and more 
general than that of any 
other house in the country. 

LIBRARY ORDERS 

given prompt and intelligent 
service. Our large stock 
and extensive library expe- 
rience enables us to give 
valuable aid and advice to 
libraries and librarians. 

; CATALOGUE CARDS and 
CARD CABINETS 
We carry a special line and 
will be glad to furnish a 
price list. 

LIBRARY DEPARTMENT 

A. C. McCLU RG & CO. 

CHICAGO 


Thirteen Numbers for One Dollar 

Why not send ONE DOLLAfi to the publishers for a 
trial subscription to 

The Living; A§:e 

For three months, thirteen numbers? You will secure 
thereby more than 800 pages of the freshest, ablest, and 
most important articles, reprinted without abridgment 
from the leading Knglish quarterlies, monthly reviews 
and magazines, and weekly literary and i>olitical journals. 
— aU the way from The Edinburgh to Punch. THE 
LR'IXG AGE is indispensable to readers who want to 
keep informed touching current thought and discussion. 

THE LIVING AQE CO. 

6 Beacon Street Boston, Mass. 






Importing Notice 

"\X7E b^ to annoiince that we have greatly extended j 
" ' otip facilities for the importation of F-ng^lish ! 
books, so that we now are equipped to fill orders of 
this sort with the g^atest efficiency and intelligence. 
Promptness, good service, and low prices will rule 
in this department, as they do in all oar business. 


THE BAKER & TAYLOR CO., WhoUsau BookuUers 

33-37 East 1 7th St., Union Sq. North. New York 



272 



THE DIAL 



[AprU 16, 1906. 



CROWELL'S BOOKS FOR SCHOOL USE 



ROQET'S THESAURUS 
of English Words and Phrases 

New Enlarged Edition. Clotli, $1.50; with Index. $2.00. 
Half Calf, $3.00. 

•' A dictionary of synonyma is a necessity to every student and 
writer. Roget's Thesaurus lias been for many years regarded as 
tlie one complete and perfect book of the kind in the language." 

DURUY'S GENERAL HISTORY 

Translated and edited by Prof. E. A. Orosvenor. 
25 colored maps. $2.00. 
"The most satisfactory world history of its kind in existence." 

— Public Opinion. 

DURUY'S ANCIENT HISTORY. Maps, Index, $1.00 

DURUY'S MIDDLE AQES. Maps, Index, $0.75 

DURUY'S MODERN TIMES. Maps, Index, $1.00 

Being Parts I., II., and III., of the "General History," 

Edited by Prof. E. A. Orosvenor. 

"I know of no historical handbook of equal comprehensiveness 

which is at once so up-to-date, so authoritative, and so attractively 

written." — William F. Warbbn, President of Boston University. 

DURUY'S HISTORY OF FRANCE 

Translated and edited by Prof. J. P. Jameson. 
12 colored maps. $2.00. 

" The best of all short summaries of French history."— Andrew 
D. WHrra. 

AMERICAN CHARITIES 
By Amos O. Warner, Ph.D. Cloth, $1.75. 

"As a manual on a subject of the most vital importance the 
book is a model, and its value is hardly to be overestimated." — 
Boston Advertiser. 

SOCIALISM AND SOCIAL REFORM 

By Richard T. Ely, Ph.D., LL.D. Cloth, $1.50. 

" Here for the first time the public is presented with a full and 
accurate account of socialism as it is." — Chicago Times. 



SOCIAL THEORY 

By John Bascom. Cloth, $1.75. 

"Very practical and ethically stimulating." — The Advance. 

PUNISHMENT AND REFORMATION 

By F. H. Wines, LL.D. Cloth, $1.75. 

" Will educate its readers in a subject on which there is, as yet, 
altogether too much sentimentality on the one hand, and brutal 
severity on the other." — N. Y. Observer. 

CONTEMPORARY HISTORY 

By Prof. E. A. Orosvenor. Maps and Index, $1.00. 

"A compact and handy volume of reference." — Rev. of Reviews. 

IRRIGATION 

By P. H. Newell, Chief U. 5. Hydrographer. 156 Illus- 
trations. $Z.OQ net. (Postage 20 cts. ) 
" Nothing on the subject has been published for years so effec- 
tive, clear, and popular." — The Literary World. 

ECONOMICS OF FORESTRY 

By B. E. Fernow, N. Y. State College of Forestry. 

$ 1 . 50 n«/. ( Postage 15 cts. ) 
"No other book of like authority. To be commended in the 
highest terms." — Philadelphia Public Ledger. 

THE POETRY OF BROWNING 

By Stopford A. Brooke. $1.50 ne<. (Postage 15 cts. ) 
"The most satisfactory and stimulating criticism of this poet 
yet published." — London Times. 

FRENCH LITERATURE 
By Ferdinand Brunetl^re. Cloth, $2.00. 

"This is a real history, the best history of French literature in 
existence." — Prof. E. A. Gbosvbnoe. 

THE BIBLE AS LITERATURE 
By Drs. Moulton, Peters, Bruce and others. Introduc- 
tion by Lyman Abbott. $1.50. 

" One of the most important analyses of the subject that has 
ever been attempted." — Commercial Advertiser. 



Astor Edition of Poets 



Handy Volume Classics 



For Schools and 
Colleges 

96 Volumes 
IZmo, Cloth 



List Price . . 
Price to Schools 



60c 
40c 



What a Prominent Pro- 
fessor Says : 

"I am delighted with the 
books, and shall use the As- 
tor Edition henceforward in 
my classes. The books are 
so well bound that they may 
well form a part of any stu- 
dent's library when he has 
ceased to use them in the 
class-room." 



Pocket Edition for 


School Use 




168 Volumes 




18mo, Cloth 




List Price . 


3Sc 


Price to Schools 


2Sc 



A School Principal's 
Opinion : 

" I am pleased to say we are 
highly satisfied with them. 
Typography, binding, paper, 
combined make these volumes 
almost ideal for class use. 
Kindly send me a copy of your 
catalogue so that I may learn 
what other volumes you pub- 
lish in the same series." 



The Astor Prose Series 

THE BEST BOOKS 

in all prose literature, printed on good paper and 
neatly bound, with frontispieces and title-pages 
printed in two colors. Cloth, assorted colors. 
322 volumes. 12mo, 

Per volume, 60 cts. Price to Schools, 40 cts. 

" The best books for the money published in England 
or America." — Fbom a Customer. 



Shakespeare's Works 

" First Folio Edition." Edited, with Notes, Intro- 
ductions, Glossaries, Lists of Variorum Readings, and 
selected Criticisms, by Charlotte Porter and 
Helen A. Clarke, Editors of the " Camberwell " 
Edition of Robert Browning, 

To be completed in 40 handy volumes, size 4^4 x Gj^^. 
Sold separately. Cloth, 75 cents; limp leather, 
$1.00 per volume. 

The following volumes are ready : 

A MIDSOMMER NIQHTS DREAME 

LOVES LABOUR'S LOST THE COMEDIE OF ERRORS 

THE MERCHANT OF VENICE 

MACBETH JULIUS C/ESAR HAMLET LEAR 

" It will prove, I am sure, the most desirable edition which has 
yet been published." — Dr. Hibam Corson. 



Thomas Y. Crowell & Co., 426-8 West Broadway, New York 



THB DIAL FBE38, FINE ARTS BtnLDINO, CHICAeO 



THE 




- .>f SEMI- MONTHLY JOURNAL OF 

yihrarg Crilrrism, gisrnssion, an^ Information. 



Editbd by \ Volume XL. 

FRANCIS F. BROWNE J ^o. 477. 



CHICAGO, ]VL\Y 1, 1906. 



10 cU. a copy. / 
I?, a year. \ 



Pink Akts Bt7iu>iKs 
a03 Michisan Blvd. 



^" 








PUBLISHED THIS MONTH 






















THE COURT OF LOVE 

By AXICE BBOWS 

A little book, light as a babble and easily read at a sit- 
ting, comes from the author of " Paradise." The Court 

"/ Loie is irresistible in its comedy, laughable in its 
abstird situations, and kindly in its attitude toward mod- 
em life. 12mo. $1.25. 




THE MAYOR OF WARWICK 

By Hkrbebt M. Hopkdis 
Mr. Hopkins, the author of " The Fighting Bishop," has 
written a brilliant novel of contemjxjrary American life, 
in which the political, educational and social centres be- 
longing to a modem and well-organized community are 
forcefully portrayed. With frontispiece in color by Henry 
Hutt. Crown 8vo. $1.50. 
















SCIENCE AND IDEALISM 

By Hugo Mckstebbkbg 

The author shows that science itself must fall asunder if 
we ever consistently disbelieved in metaphysical ideals. 
He proves that the aesthetic and logical, the moral and 
religions values belong forever to our real world, which 
without them would be not a world but a chaos, not real 
but a dream. These eternal values he resolves into one 
whose eternal character stands beyond doubt. 16mo, 
8.5 cents, net. Postage extra. 




ELEMENTS OF 
POLITICAL SCIENCE 

By Stephen L acock 
A broad and suggestive introduction to the study of 
Political Science, in which various theories of individ- 
ualism, socialism, etc.. are explained, and the great ex- 
pansion of state activity in the last fifty years is fully 
considered. Treatment by topics is substituted for the 
usual treatment by countries, but every gener^ principle 
is illustrated by reference to the governments of leading 
states. Crown 8vo. $1.75 nW ; postpaid. 
















SONGS AND SONNETS 

By Thomas Baitey Aldbich 

The author's selection of his choicest poens. published 
in a form df appropriate distinction. Rivertide Pre*t 
Edition. 400 numbered copies, narrow 12mo, |5X0 net, 
postpaid. 

Send for detcriptive circular. 




PAUL ET VIRGINIE 

Par BEBjyADEf DK SAUrr-PrKRBK 

The most funous of French romances, in the French text 
of the original first edition. Hivertide Pre** Edition. 
2S0 numbered copies, illustrated, small quarto. $15.00, 
net, postpaid. 

Send for detcriptire circular. 
















MORAL OVERSTRAIN 

By George W. Axgee 

Seven direct and earnest essays by a New York lawyer 
dealing with the existence and treatment of " graft " in 
modem business and politics. Mr. Alger's uncommonly 
clear and candid insight into the moral aspects of mod- 
em business and legal proceeding is backed up by a 
wealth of concrete illustration. $1.00, net. Postpaid, $1.09. 




READING OF SHAKESPEARE 

By JajceS M. HoPPEf 

studies of Shakespeare's Life and Learning. Nature and 
Art, Morality and Style. Professor Hoppin takes up the 
plays separately, commenting briefly on each and mak- 
ing helpful suggestion which will assist the reader in 
his enjoyment of Shakespeare. Crown 8vo, $1J25. net. 
Postage extra. 






















HOUGHTON, MIFFLIN & COMPANY, Boston and New Yokk 












274 THE DIAL [Mayl. 



^ 






HENRY HOLT AND COMPANY 



378 Wabash Avenue, Chicago 

29 West Twenty-third Street, New York 

128 Tremont Street, Boston 



Recent Books for Colleges and High Schools 

f^citme 

Chamberlin and Salisbury's Qeology. By Thomas G. Chambebum and Rouun D. Sausbubt, Professors 
in the University of Chicago. 3 vols. 8vo. 

Volume I., Procbsses and theib Results. 054 pp. $4.00 net. 

Volumes II. and III., Earth History. 692+624 pp. (Not sold separately.) $8.00 net. 

Remsen's Introduction to the Study of Chemistry. New Edition. By Ir.\ Remsek, President of Johns 
Hopkins University. 516 pp. $1.12 net. 

Aticlnson's College Botany. By Geobgb F. Atkinson, Professor in Cornell University. 737 pp. $2.00 net. 



Newcomer and Seward's Rhetoric in Practice. By A. G. Newcomer. Professor in Leland Stanford Uni- 
versity, and Samuel S. Sewabd, Jr., Instructor in the same. 285 pp. 90 ets. net. 

Hitchcock's Practice Book in English Composition. By Alfred M. Hitchcock, of the Hartford, Conn., 
High School. 226 pp. 80 cts. net. 

Andrews' Specimens of Discourse. By Arthur L. Andrews, Instructor in Cornell University. 289 pp. 
J^ 60 cts. net. 

J Buck and Morris's Narrative Writing. By Professor Gebtbude Buck, of Vassar College, and Elizabeth 
^ WooDBBiDGB MoRRis. 200 pp. 12mo. 80 cts. net. 

IS Bronson's English Essays. Edited by Professor W. C. Bronson, of Brown. 404 pp. Large 12mo. $1.25 net. 

jj The Lincoln-Douglas Debates. Edited by Professor A. L. Bouton, of New York University. 297 pp. 16mo. 
' (English Readings.) 60 cts. net. 

J TEMPLE SCHOOL SHAKESPEARE 

^ Each volume 35 cts. net. 

Jj The Tempest. Oliphant Smeaton. Hamlet. Oliphant Smeaton. 

- Macbeth. George Smith. Richard II. W. Keith Leask. 

1 Julius Caesar. F. Armytagb Moblky. The Merchant of Venice. R. M 'Williams. 
Jj As You Like It. Flora Masson. Henry V. R. H. Case. 

"I (German CeitiS 

"I Blochmann's Introduction to Scientific German : Air, Water, Light, and Heat. Edited by Prof. 
jJ F. W. Mbisnest, University of Wisconsin. With vocab. 210 pp. 80cts.net. 

^ Qoethe : Iphigenie auf Tauris. Edited by Max Winkler, University of Michigan. 211 pp. 60 cts. net. 

2 Hebbei : Herodes und Mariamne. Edited by Edward S. Meter, Western Reserve University, xxxviii+192 pp. 

3 60 cts. net. 

Jj Heyse : Die Blinden. Edited by W. H. Carruth, University of Kansas, and E. F. Enokl, Assistant Professor in 
f the same. With vocab. 131 pp. KJmo. 35 cts. net. 

Saar : Die Steinklopfer. Edited by Dr. Chas. H. Handschin and Professor Edwin C. Roedder, University of 
Wisconsin. With vocab. 117 pp. 16mo. 85 cts. net. 

Schiller : Minor Poems. Edited by John S. Nollen, Iowa College. 377 pp. 16mo. 80 cts. net. 

Sudermann : Teja. Edited by Herbert C. Sanbobn, Bancroft School. With vocab. 110 pp. 16mo. 35cts.net. 

Rambeau's French Reader. Based upon Passy-Rambeau's " Chrestomathie Frangaise." By A. Rambeau. 

184 pp. 16mo. 50 cts. net. 

Bazin : Les Oberl^. Edited by Charles W. Cabeen, Syracuse University. 209 pp. Kimo. 40 cts. net. 

Daudet : Robert Helmont. Edited by W. O. Farnsworth, Yale. 150 pp. lOmo. 40 cts. net. 

Erckmann-Chatrian : Waterloo. Edited by Victor E. Francois, College of the City of New York. With 
vocab. 226 pp. 16mo. 40 cts. net. 

France : Le Livre de mon Ami. Edited by 0. G. Guerlac, Cornell. 154 pp. 16mo. 40 cts. net. 



1906} THE DIAL. 275 

HENRY HOLT AND COMPANY - ^- ?;-»?;r ^'^^'' ^ 

New Books of Lasting Value for General Readers 



PROBLEMS OF BABYHOOD ^A printing. $1.25 net. By mail $1.33. 

By Dr. and Mrs. Georgk Weixs Frrz. With some twenty illustrations by Edwakd A. Beix. 

Si. Louit Globe-Democrat : " Of decided Tslue and needed by thoannds of parent* who ought already to have nuutered many 
of its teachings. Those who hare nerer been brought to a realization of the STil done by thoughtless care of little folk will find the 
little book to be worth its weight in gold." 



It 

NATURE AND HEALTH By Dr. Edwabd Ccktis. $1.25 net. By nuul $1.37. ^ 



The sabjects iaclade breathing, eating, dragging for delectation, seeing, hearing, clothing, bathing, disinfecting, 
exercising the body, sleeping and waking, working and playing, living and dying, etc. 

A'etB York Timet Revietc : " Manages to corer his subject fully. One caa dip into it here and there, and be certain always of 

flmling something worth while, told succinctly, with a dry wit that like the claws of the burr nakes it stick. He believes in cnlU- ^ 

▼ating the imagination and the memory. His book will make hia readers think." I* 



AMERICAN PUBLIC PROBLEMS. Edited by R. C. RingtoaU. 

Each $1..^ net. By mail $1.62. 



method, and its effect on the senate and senators, on by Mr. Hall ; . . . he wrte. with wnvicUon. but not with 

',,, ■ 1 I •■> I ■ r prejudice or passion. Peiiiaps nowhere else caa be found 

state and local government with a detailed review of ^^^^ ^^ ^^ conveniently arranged sutistics, and as good 

arguments for and against direct election. an epitome of legialatioa." 



Aeir York Timet Sevietr : " ▲ study of trades-unions in the concrete. Impartial and thorough. . . . expertly written.' 



It 



THE ELECTION OF SENATORS. By Gko. R. IMMIGRATION. By Prescott F. Haix. jf 

Hatnes, author of ''Representation in State Legis- Second printrng. » 

hitures." Shows the historical reasons for the present ^ ^^^ ^^ ^"^ Review: " A fascinating subject as treated ?J 



THE NEQRO AND THE NATION. By Geobgk S. Mbkriajc 2d printing. 436 pp. $1.75 net. By mafl $1.92. |L 
Probably the first complete history of the n^jro in his relation to onr politics. 

The Rev. Edwakd Everett Hai^ in '^Lend a Hand '* : " Sensible people who wish to know, who wish to form 
good sound opinions, and especially those who wish to take their honest part in the great duties of the hoar, will 
read the book, will study it, and will find nothing else better worth reading and study." 



It 

It 
It 



STUDIES IN AMERICAN TRADES-UNIONISM 380 pp. $2.75 net By mail $2.98. 

J. BL HoiXAXDEB, G. E. Babkett, Editors. 
Papers by graduate students and officers of Johns Hopkins, the results of original investigations. L 

\t!ie York Timet S/vuw .- " A studv of trades-unions in the concrete. Iranartial and thorough. . . . exDertlv written." ^ 



HEREDITY IN ROYALTY. By Dr. Frederick Adams Woods. 312 pp. 8vo. $3.00 net. By maU $3.18. . 

A consideration of some 3,300 persons, presenting an interesting estimate of the mental and moral status of all C 

modem royal families, and illustrated with over one hundred portraits. k 

Providence Journal : " By far the strongest document which has yet been prepared, aside from Or. Galton's owa writinga. The ^ 

author of this book does not coincide in the riew that royalty baa degenerated. . . . Dr. Woods's contribution to the diacnasion of |. 

heredity or environment is one of distinct value." ^ 

Two Noteworthy New Novels, Praised by AittharUies. Y 

THE SEA MAID. By Rosald MacDohald. The THE PROFESSOR'S LEGACY. By Mrs. Alfred f 

adventures of the Dean of Beckminster and othen on Sidgwick. A tale of German University and En- t 

an uncharted island in the Pacific, si. .50. glish country life. Second printing. fl.oO. * 

A'etc York Sun : " Marked by admirable humor . . . one of m|[ 

The Dial : " A piquant situation, and it u developed with in- jj^ ^^^ capable and satisfying of stories." i 

geniotts success. . . . For sheer entertainment this story is one JVVtr York Timet Review : " Strongly reminds one of Miss c 

of the best of the year, and it is by no means devoid of the Fothergill's ' First Violin '; . . . the tale is a good one told \ 

qualities that appeal to the literary sense." with much humor and much excellent character study ... If 

- -. .... .. ■ . . ^. .. , , very readable." i 

Boston Tranterxpt: "An exceedingly fascmatmg tale of ex- ' . , r j % .< rw_ * ..». _.-.._,.• ^ .. I. 

. „ Academy {London) : " One of the most interesting and well- Jf 

traordinary adventures. ^^j^ noveU of the season, and should be one of the most popular. " T 

Four Remarkable Books for Nature Lovers. !• 

LOTTRIDGE'S ANIMAL SNAPSHOTS, and How Made. With 85 photographs by the author. L 

$1.75 net. By mail $1.92. ^ 

JORDAN'S GUIDE TO THE STUDY OF FISHES. 2 vols. 1223 pp. 936 illustrations. j|j 

$12.00 net. Carriage extra. * 

KELLOQG'S AMERICAN INSECTS. 812 figures. 647 pp. $5.00 net. Carriage extra. ^ 

WATER'S FERNS of the Northeasters States. Over 200 illustrations. 362 pp. $3.00 net. By nuul $3.34. |a 



276 



THE DIAL 



[May 1, 



HARPER'S LATEST FICTION 
FENWICK'S CAREER 

By MRS. HUMPHRY WARD 

The story follows the career of a poor artist of brilliant talents and promise who conies to 
London to win bread and recognition from the great, micertain public. Fen wick conceals the 
fact that he is already married to a coimtry girl in Westmoreland, and from this develops a situa- 
tion intensely dramatic, in which Fenwick's wife and the beautiful daughter of Fenwick's rich 
London patron play leading parts. Many of the scenes portray that social London which Mrs. 
Ward's recent novels have pictured so wonderfully and with such insistent charm. 

Illustrated by Albert Sterner Price, $1.50. 

TWO- VOLUME EDITION DE LUXE— Limited to 498 numbered sets, with autograph of 
Mrs. Ward. Illustrations by Sterner in photogravure on Japan paper. Deckel Edges, 
Gilt Tops, Specially Boxed Price, net, $5.00. 



The flower of FRANCE 

By JUSTIN HUNTLY MCCARTHY 

This is the story of Joan of Arc charmingly 
retold in Mr. McCarthy's inimitable style. While 
the romance follows history in the main, the au- 
thor has given it here and there imaginative 
touches that enhance the beauty and interest of 
the romance. A stage version of the book will be 
produced by Sothern and Marlowe next season. 
Price, $1.50. 



THE PRINCESS OLQA 

By ERVIN WARDMAN 

Ervin Wardman's new novel recalls The Pris- 
oner of Zenda. The hero is a plucky young 
American engineer. His adventures in Crevonia, 
a little independent kingdom of Europe, whicjj 
proves to be a nest of plots and intrigues, ar 
thrilling indeed. It is the most absorbing kind 
of modern romance. 

Price, $1.50. 



SILAS STRONG 



By IRVING BACHELLER 
••An epic hero." — Springfield Union. 

*• A modern Leatherstocking. Brings to the city dweller the aroma of the^ pine and the music 
of the wind in its branches." — San Francisco Chronicle. 

••A stronger character than Eben Holden." — Utica Observer. 

Price, $1.50. 



THE SPOILERS 



By REX E. BEACH 

"A story of the hunger for gold digged out of the hills and the hunger of man for woman and for 
woman's love — a story that is true of all men and all real women since time began." — Albany Jotirnal, 

'' Not often does the reader come upon a story of this virile quality. It will gi-ip the reader's attention 
until the last page is turned. No better romance of the life of civilized men, reverting iinder primitive 
conditions to the master passions of mankind, has been told. Mr. Rex Beach, the author, has scored a 
brilliant success." — Brooklyn Eagle. 

Illustrated by Clarence F. Underwood. Price, $1.50. 



HARPER & BROTHERS PUBLISHERS NEW YORK 



1906] THE DLAX 277 

EVERY LIBRARY SHOULD HAVE 

The Sumptuous and Definitive Volume 

Collected Sonnets of llqyd mifflin 

Henry Frowde, London. 1st edition. Photog^vure portrait. ^2.60. Postpaid, 32.80. 
This handsome volume, with its wide-margined 400 pages, contains 350 of the best Sonnets which the 
author has produced during a life devoted to poetry. In every way the book is a remarkable production. 
It contains many new Sonnets not before published. Xo American library can be considered complete 
mthout it. 

READ THE VERDICT OF HIGH AUTHORITIES IN GREAT 
BRITAIN AND AMERICA 

Westminster Review: — ilr. Lloyd Mifflin's sonnets exceed in number the Rime of Petrarch, and cover 
a wider field of thought, experience, and imagination. ... It would be idle to attempt, in the limits of a 
short notice, anything like a critical examination of this wonderful collection. . . . He possesses a vivid 
imagination, kept under severe restraint, a delicate ear for rhythm, together with the faculty of pictorial 
presentation. These qualities, combined with a well-nigh faultless technique, render him unapproachable 
by any living English sonneteer. 

Mrs. Ella Higginson : — No American has ever made such an enduring and noteworthy contribution to 
the sonnet literatiire of the world. He stands beside Wordsworth. His work has the dignity, the serenity, 
the seriousness, the fine imagination and the diction, exquisitely simple and rich, that mark the great poet. 

Mr. W. D. Howells : — A little more courage to know what is undeniably great, although it is our own, 
seems to me still desirable in our criticism, and when it comes }klr. Mifflin's poetry will have its reward. 

St. Andrew's University : — Lloyd Mifflin is a poet bom, not made. We cannot withhold our admira- 
tion from a collection of sonnets which have a charm and a beauty about them giving evidence of the work 
of a poet of remarkable poetic genius. 

A herdeen Free Press : — To the rare gift of a penetrative imagination he brings a finely balanced intel- 
lect and a keen sense of poetic diction. ... In his highest flights he shows a warmth of imagination, a 
richness of colour, a clarity of thought, and an almost perfect technique that shows him not imworthy to 
walk beside the greatest sonneteers in the annals of the English language. 

Prof. A. S. Mackenzie, Kentucky State College, in the Louisville Courier-Journal: — Lloyd Mifflin, in 
my opinion, is the greatest poet of America, past or present. . . . The sad part of it is that a man has to 
die to become famous. 

Dundee Advertiser : — There are some critics who maintain that American poetry is on the decline. 
The halcyon days of Bryant, Longfellow, Poe, Lowell, ^V^littier and Whitman are gone, it is said. While 
there may be a grain of truth in the accusation, it cannot justly be alleged that poetry of the higher order no 
longer has an exponent in America while Lloyd Mifflin still remains to carry on the great tradition of song. 

Yorkshire Post: — . . . Some are suffused with tenderness and beauty: a few, very few, are splendidly 
strong. To say that some half-dozen shovdd find a place in the most choice " Sonnet Anthology " of the 
future is the greatest praise we can conceive. 

Evening Post : — Mr. Mifflin is justly entitled to a high position as a sonneteer. In his own way there 
is no one now living to equal him. Indeed, it is only just to remember that there have been in the course 
of English literarj- history only a very few poets who could get together a collection of sonnets at once so 
numerous as this and of such high technical excellence. The volume contains three hundred and fifty 
pieces, and is then but a selection. 

R. H. Stoddard : — His faults are condoned by many excellent qualities, and by one in which he has no 
superior among living American poets, if indeed an eqiial — a glorious imagination. . . . The man who wrote 
this sonnet (" The Flight ") is a true poet, and must soon be reckoned among the masters of American song. 



FOR SALE BY ALL BOOKSELLERS. 



OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS 

AMERICAN BRANCH 

Nos. 91-93 FIFTH AVENUE NEW YORK CITY 

OTHER BOOKS BY LLOYD MIFFLIN: At the Gates of Song (Frowde, $L2.5); The Slopes of Helicon 
(Estes. $1.2.5); The Fields of Dawn, and Echoes of Greek Idyls (Houghton, MifBin & Co., each $1.2.5); Castalian 
Days (Frowde, $1.2.5) ; The Fleeing Nymph (Small, Mavnard & Co.. $1.00) ; My Lady of Dream — jast published — 
(Frowde. $1.00'. Postage extra. 



278 



THE DIAJL 



[May 1, 



AUGUSTINE THE MAN 

A Dramatic Poem by AMf^LIP> RIVES (Princess Troubetzkoy). 
" The most important work Amelie Rives has yet done^ — New York Times. 12mo. f^l.')0 net. Postage, Oc. 



PILGRIMAGES TO OLD HOMES 

Over 230 beautiful reproductions of special new photo- 
graphs of Castles, Abbeys, Estates in Mid-South and 
Western English counties, with Anecdotic and Histori- 
cal Commentary by FiiETCHKB Moss. Royal 8vo. Red 
and Gold Cloth. ijiT.OO net. Postage, i]Oc. 



WILD FLOWERS OF 



SELBORNE 

l2mo. ^1.50 



And Other Papers, by John Va0c;hn, 
net. Postage, 12c. 



A PATRIOT'S MISTAKE 

Reminiscences of Charles Stewai't Parnell, by Emily 
Monroe Dickinson. 8vo. Illustrated. .S;>.00 net. Post- 
age, 15c. 

LOVE'S TESTAMENT 

A Sonnet Sequence, by G. Constant Lounsbeky. 1 2mo. 
$i.^0 net. Postage, 6c. 



THE REFORMATION IN ENGLAND 

By the late Dkan Samuel Rokfey Maitland. l2mo. 
Illustrated. $l.-")0 net. Postage, 14c. 

HAUNTINGS 

Fantastic Stories, by Vkbnon Lke, author of "En- 
chanted Woods," " Spirit of Rome," etc. 12rao. $1.50 
net. Postage, 12c. 

TROLLOPE 

Small House at Allington, just out in this Handy Pocket 
Edition. 2 vols., 24mo. Cloth, $1..50 net. Leather, $2,00 
net. Postpaid, I2c. 

THE HOUSE BY THE BRIDGE 

A Novel of Devonshire, by M. G, Easton. r2mo. $1..')0. 

THE YOUNG O'BRIENS 

A Novel, by Margaret Westbup, author of " Eliza- 
beth's Children," " Helen Alliston," etc. 12mo. *1..")0. 



JOHN LANE COMPANY, NEW YORK 



THE BODLEY HEAD 



67 FIFTH AVENUE 




Sonjsmans, (Bxttn, Si Co/s ^eto iSoofes 



Industrial Efficiency 

A Comparative Study of Industrial Life in England, Germany, 
and America, By Arthur Shadwbll, M.A., M,D, 2 vols. 
8vo. Net, $7.00, 

" Some of the chapters in these volumes are model records o{ econom- 
ical investigation. They sum up clearly and succinctly, and without ex- 
aj^geration, vividly and often in picturesque phrase, the outcome of much 
careful, dispassionate examination. . . . We know few recent boolis likely to 
be more instructive and helpful to employers and workmen." — The Timet. 

The >Eneid of Virgil 

With a Translation by Charles J. Billson, M.A., Corpus 
Christi College, Oxford, 2 vols., crown 4to. Net, $8.50. 
These volumes are printed in old-style English type on a deckle-edged 
antique paper, and are bound in drab bolland with paper label ; on the left- 
hand page is a text based on Conington's, and on the right a line-for-line 
translation in blank verse. 

The House of Shadows 

By Reginald J. Farrer. A dramatic first novel by the author 
of " The Garden of Asia." Crown 8vo, pp. 336. $1.50, 

The Lady of the Well 

By Eleanor Alexander, author of "Lady Anne's Walk" 
and " The Rambling Rector," Crown 8vo, pp. 328. $1.50. 

The Subjection of Women 

By John Stuart Mill. New Edition. Edited, with Intro- 
ductory Analysis, by Stanton Coit, Ph,D, Crown 8vo, 
pp. 192. Net, 90 cts. 



Lectures on Early English 
History 

By William Stcbbs, D.D., formerly Bishop of 
Oxford and Regius Professor of Modern His- 
tory in the University of Oxford, Edited 
by Arthur Hassall, M,A., Student of Christ 
Chnrch, Oxford. 8vo, pp. viii-392. Net, $4. 

The Why and Wherefore 
of Bridge 

By Q, T, Atchison and A, J, Q. Lindsell, 
Crown 8vo, Net, 80 cts. 

" A good manual. . . . Especially adapted to players 
who have already attained some proficiency." 

— Newark Evening Newt. 

New Collected Rhymes 

By Andrew Lang. Crown 8vo. Net, $1.25. 

CONTENTS: Dedicatory — Loyal Lyrics — Cricket 
Rhymes — Critical of Life, Art and Literature — Jubilee. 
Poems — Folk Songs — Ballads. 

"... There is plenty of art in his new collection of 
poems, but if it leaves an uncommonly pleasant im- 
pression it is because there is in it, likewise, plenty of 
genuine thought and feeling." — New York Tribune. 



ILongman0, (Sreen, d Co,, 91 d 93 Mtb auenue, jeeto pork 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



279 



1 116 Victorian V>nHnC6ll0rS or Lincoln's inn. Barrister at Law. 

An important biographical and historical work on the Chancellors of England during the 
reign of Queen Victoria, including Lord Lyndhurst, Lord Brougham, Lord Cottenham, and 
Lord Truro. Vol. I., with seven illustrations, Ready May 5. 8vo, cloth. S4.00 net. 

The Fight for Canada By Major william wood 

Major Wood places the Quebec campaign of 1759 on a new historical footing. He makes 
use of important material that has come to light since Parkman's day. New Standard 
American Edition, with portraits and maps. 8vo, S2.o0 net. Postpaid, S2.70. 

The Economy of Happiness By james meckaye 

The present work seeks to transfer the foundation of economics from wealth to happiness '■> 
thus substituting utilitarianism for commercialism, and making ethics instead of the arbitrar)- 
ti-aditions of political economy the foundation of public polity. Small 8vo. S2.50 net. 



The IJn-to-nate Waitre^^ By janet Mackenzie hill 

1 lie LJ JP"li/~l-'<tlC W (till Cod . Author of Salads, Sandwiches," etc 

A book of inestimable value in every household where a waitress is employed, giving as it 
does the fullest information on the management of the table, the serving of food, etc. With 
illustrations in half-tone. 12mo. Si. 50 net. Postpaid, $1.65. 

nrU,,«^«*, ^^A T l^U4.^i^^ ' By CAMILLE FLAMMARION 

InUnder and Llgntning Author of Popmar Astronomy.- etc. 

An immensely entertaining and popidar scientific work by the great French astronomer, 

giving *• the habits and customs of thunder and lightning." Illustrated. 12mo. $1.25 net. 

Postpaid, Sl.37. 



The Game of Bridge 

A popular treatise on "bridge," to which have been added the laws of the game 
$1.00 'net. Postpaid, $1.10. 



By FISHER AMES 
Author of " A Practical Treatise on Whist.'' 

16mo. 



THE TWO LEADING BOOKS ON RAILROAD RATES 



American 
Railroad Rates 



By Judge 
WALTER C. NOYES 



•■ We know of no book which will g^ve the lay reader 
so clear and so authoritative a statement of the fun- 
damental legal principles which must govern in the 
determination of the pending question concerning 
government reg^ation of railway rates." 

— Outlook, New York. 
$1.50 net. Postpaid, *1.<34. 



The Heart of the By Professor 

Railroad Problem fRank parsons 

A history of railroad discrimination in the United 
States by one who has studied and investigated the 
relations between the railroads and the public for 
twenty years. A book that fully reveals the facts 
in reference to railroad favoritism and proposes 
remedies. 

$1.50 net. Postpaid, $1.64. 



Little, :i5roton, S, Company Pul)li$|)er0 15oiBiton, Q^a^g. 



280 



THE DIAL 



[Mayl, 



WITH WALT WHITMAN 

IN CAMDEN 

CThis illuminating diary record has 
been truly likened to Boswell's John- 
son in the fulness and veracity of the 
revelation of the poet's daily life and 
thought. €L His conversations and his 
correspondence with a host of world- 
famous men-of-letters show afresh the 
breadth of his human interest and 
the acuteness and candor of his criti- 
cal judgment. By Horace Traubel. 
35 full-page portraits and facsimiles. 
SOO pp. (^3.00 net; $3.20 by mail.) 

JOHN FISKE 

CThis, like the above, is an intimate 
biography, by a lifelong friend, Thomas 
Sergeant Perry — and the only life 
of the great American philosopher and 
historian. It is the latest issue in the 
famous " Beacon Biographies," and 
maintains the standard set for that 
unique series of handy pocket vol- 
umes: "to furnish brief, readable and 
authentic accounts of those Americans 
whose personalities have impressed 
themselves most deeply on the char- 
acter and history of their country." 
With a photogravure frontispiece. 
(7? cents net; 80 cents by mail.) 

SMALL, MAYNARD 
& COMPANY: Boston 



ENIGMAS OF 
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH 

By PROF. JAMES H. HYSLOP, Ph.D., LL.D., Vice-President 

of the Society for Psychical Research. 
A comprehensive account of the Investigation of Crystal 
Vision, Telepathy, Dream Coincidents, Apparitions, Premo- 
nitions, Clairvoyance, Mediumistic Phenomena, etc., by that 
eminent group of scientific men composing the Council of the 
Society for Psychical Research. Also by the same author, 

SCiENCEAND 
A FUTURE UFM 

Based on the astounding data accumulated by Sir Oliver 
Lodge, Sir William Crooks, Prof. William James, Dr. Richard 
Hodgson, Prof. Sidgwick, Prof. Newbold, F. W. H. Myers, 
Prof. Hyslop, and others, in their investigation of Personal 
Identity in Psychical Phenomena. 

Each, bound in cloth, $1.50 ; by mail, $1.62 each. 
HERBERT B. TURNER & CO., Publishers, Boston. 



SPRING PUBLrCATIONS 

FROM THE PRESS OF 

Jennings & Graham 

CINCINNATI 

THE STORY OP THE MASTERPIECES 
By Chables M. Stuabt, D.D. 
To the fuU-paf;e illustrations of the old masters have been added Watts' 
Love and Death, Burne-Jones's Wheel of Fortune, and five plates 
showin^r Sargent's Prophets with the story of each. Quarto, 149 
pages, 16 full-page plates. Special cover design by Miss Raymond. 
Boxed. Price, $1.00 net. 

WHERE PUSSIES GROW 

By Harriet Lee Grove. Illustrations by Ella Dolbear Lee. 

A beautiful collection of bright, attractive songs for children, both 
words and music, written by one who has been most successful in 
this line, with themes familiar to children and pleasing to all. 
Appropriately illustrated with ten color plates, some of them full- 
page and many smaller in black. Beautifully illuminated cover, 
with unique design in color. Quarto, oblong, 12i/^il0 inches. 
Bound in Baards. Price, $1.60 net. Postage, 20 cents. 

Rubaiyat of Hope. By A. A. B. Cavaness. Introduction by William 
A. Quayle. Small quarto, 6x8 inches. Printed on Old Stratford, 
antique ; edges hand torn. Special cover design by Miss Whitteker. 
Price, $1.00 net. Postage, 10 cents. 

The Rapture of the Forward View. By J. Harry Miller. 12mo. 

Neatly bound, gilt top. Price, 40 cents net. 

The Unrealized liOgric of Rellerion. By W. H. Fitchett, B.A., 
LL.D. 12mo. 275 pages. Printed on Old Stratford paper. Price, 
$1.26 net. 

Missionary Interpretation of History. By Richard T. Ste- 
venson. 12mo. 105 pages. Price, 36 cents net. 

The Greatest Need of the Modem Church. By Alex. M- 
Sutherland. SmalllSmo. Dainty board binding. Price, 10 cents net- 

The Enthusiasm of God. By Dinsdale T. Young. 12mo. 253 
pages. Printed on Old Stratford paper. Price, $1.26 net. 

Man to Man. By R. E. Welsh. 267 pages. 12mo. Printed on Old 
Stratford paper. Price, $1.00 net. 

Perfect Manhood. By David Watson. 238 pages. 12mo. Old 
Stratford paper. Price, $1.00 net. 



FOR SALE BY ALL BOOKSELLERS. 



A UNIVERSAL EXCHANGE OF ALL VARIETIES OP EARNEST 
RELIGIOUS THOUGHT. 

THE HIBBERT JOURNAL 

Each number comprises 240 pages. Yearly subscription, S2.50, post free. 
Single numbers, 75 cents, post free. 



CHIEF CONTENTS OF THE APRIL NUMBER : 

IS THE RBLIQION OF THE SPIRIT A WORKING RELIGION 

FOR MANKIND? By DOM CUTHBERT BUTLER. 
HOW JAPANESE BUDDHISM APPEALS TO A CHRISTIAN 

THEIST. By Professor J. ESTLIN CARPENTER. 
DOES CHRISTIAN BELIEF REQUIRE METAPHYSICS? By 

Professor E. S. DROWN. 
MR. BIRRELL'S CHOICE. By the Right Rev. LORD BISHOP OF 

CARLISLE. 
THE WORKING FAITH OF THE SOCIAL REFORMER. By 

Professor HENRY JONES. 

ST. CATHERINE OF SIENA. By EDMUND G. GARDNER. 

THE LAWS AND LIMITS OF DEVELOPMENT IN CHRISTIAN 
DOCTRINE. By the Rev. Principal W. JONES-DA VIES. 

THE SALVATION OF THE BODY BY FAITH. By the Author 
of "PRO CHRI8TO ET ECCLE8IA." 

THE RESURRECTION. A Layman's Dialogue. By T. W. 

ROLLENSTON. 

CHRISTIANITY AND SCIENCE — II: The Divine Element In 
Christianity. By SIR OLIVER LODGE. 

With a Number of Signed Reviews and Bibliography of Recent 
Literature. 

Subscriptions are booked and single numbers sold by 
G. E. Stechert & Co., 129-133 West Twentieth Street, New York, 
American Unitarian Association, 25 Beacon Street, Boston, 
or from any good bookseller, or the publishers, 

WILLIAMS & NORGATE, 

14 Henrietta Street, Covent Garden, London, W. C, England. 



1906] THE DIAL. 281 

Two William Ritchie Books 



THE MECHANIC 

By ALLAN MclVOR, Author of "The Overlord" 

A ROMANCE OF STEEL AND OIL 

NOVEL readers will be interested in how John Worth, the hero and 
mechanic, acquires an education ; how he battles with the magnates of 
Oil ; how he marries Lurgan's daughter, Catherine, a famous heiress ; how he 
triumphs over all obstacles, and of right becomes a great captain of industry. 
. . . Read of his love for his wife and child : his deep affection for the uncle 
who reared him, and his reverence for his father who died to save him. . . . 
Read of his terrible and prophetic vengeance. 12mo, cloth, $\S0, 

The Story of the Constitution of the 

United States 

By ROSSITER JOHNSON, LL.D. 

IF THERE is one subject in which we may reasonably expect every American citizen to be interested, 
that subject is the National Constitution, which is the supreme law of the land. Many of our intel- 
ligent citizens possess a copy of the Constitution, or at least have read it. But few indeed are familiar 
with the story of its formation. 

The whole narrative is not only a significant piece of history, but an intensely interesting story, and will 
surprise some who imagine they are familiar with the history of our country. We commonly think the 
Fathers of the Republic framed it in their patriotic wisdom. How many of us are aware that some of 
them opposed it and did their utmost to defeat its acceptance? How many know that one of our most 
honored Presidents was among these opponents? How many know of the impracticable sections that 
escaped being incorporated in it? How many are aware that in some States it was ratified by a bare 
majority ? How many are famUiar with the agency of Washington, Franklin, and Madison in its forma- 
tion ? How many know that George Clinton — then Governor of New York, and afterwards Vice-President 
of the United States — tried hard to have New York reject it? 

Heretofore this wonderful story was to be found only in pieces scattered through many books and doc- 
uments. Now it may be had in a single handy volume, " The Story of the Constitution of the United 
States," published at the price of 

ONE DOLLAR NET. POSTPAID. 

Published by WILLIAM RITCHIE, No. 70 Fifth^ Avenue, New York 



282 THE DIAL [May 1,1906. 

** No former edition of Franklin's Writings has ever 
approached this in fullness.'' — The Heview of Heviews. 

The Writings of 

Benjamin Franklin 

Edited by Albert H. Smyth, Professor of the English Language and Literature 
in the Central High School, Philadelphia. With Portraits and Illustrations. 

Special Limited Mdition in Ten Volumes., Cloth., 8vo. 
Price per volume., $3 00 net (carriage extra). 



COMMENTS OF THE PRESS 

BOSTON TRANSCRIPT : 

" A valuable and interesting compilation of the writings of Franklin, revealing more completely 
than any other the private character of the man." 

BOSTON HERALD: 

" Franklin's significance in literature appears when we remember that he was the fiist American 
to transcend provincial bomidaries and limitations, and the first author and scientist to achieve wide 
and permanent reputation in Europe. His autobiography was vivid, truthful, thrilling with life, for 
it was the simple, fascinating narrative of a career that began in lowly surroundings and ended in 
splendor. It contained therefore the substance of the stories that have chiefly interested the world." 

CHICAGO TRIBUNE: 

" There was never a man whose interest extended to so many widely severed fields as did Franklin's. 
Besides the scientific problems which he studied out to a satisfactory soliition, we find foreshadowed 
in his casual suggestions the germs of many later discoveries. His literary and political activity is 
mirrored in his writings, and his own autobiography is one of the classics of English literature." 

NEW YORK TRIBUNE: 

" No more worthy tribute to the great philosopher and patriot could well have been contrived than 
the wholly admirable edition of his writings which Professor Smyth has collected and edited with so 
much reverent scholarship and painstaking research." 

THE FORUM, (New York): 

" Everywhere we touch him he is the human and therefore the fascmating Franklin . . . when his 
limitations have been duly considered, it remains true that Franklin, like Defoe, and for much the 
same reasons, is one of the most fascinating of mortals, at least to students who examine his char- 
acter by means of his self-revealing writings." — W. P. Trent, Columbia University. 

BALTIMORE SUN: 

" Of all the editions of the works of Franklin, this is the best." 



Published j^g MACMILLAN COMPANY ''tEw^YORK""' 



THE DIAL 

a Scmt^^OTttfjIg Journal of Eitfrarj Critirism, Sisnissian, anli lEnformatum. 



THE DIAL (founded, in ISSOJ U publUhed on the Ut and 16th 
of each month. Terms op Subscbiftion, tt. a year in advance, 
pottage prepatd in the United States, Canada, and Mexico; 
in other countries comprised in the Postal Union, 50 cents a 
year for extra postage mtut be added. BEMiTTAjrcBS s?iould 
be by cheek, or by express or postal order, payable to THt 
DIA L COM PA N T. Un less othervoise ordered, subscriptions 
will begin u-iih the current number. When no direct request 
to discontinue at expiration of subscription is received, it is 
assumed that a continuance of the subscrij>tion is desired. 
AovssnsisQtiATBa furnished on application. AUeommtmi- 
calions should be addressed to 

THE DIAL, Fine ArU Building, Chicago. 

EXTE&ED AT TBE CHICAGO POSTOFFICE AS SBOOND-CLASS MATTES 
BY THE DIAL COMFAXT, PUBUSHERS. 



No. 477. 



MAY 1, 1906. 



Vol. XL. 



COXTEXTS. 



GOVERNMENT DOCUMENTS 283 

AN APOSTLE OF CLEAR THINKING. F«ry F. 

Bidcnell 285 

COMMUNICATION 287 

Improvised Means of Naval Warfare. J^. H. 

Costello. 

THREE DECADES OF THE AMERICAN UNI- 
VERSITY. F. B. B. Hellems 289 

TWO VIEWS OF A GREAT ENGLISH KING. 

Laurence M. Larson 291 

SLAVERY AND ITS AFTERMATH. W. E. Burg- 

hardt Du Bois 294 

MONARCHY OR REPUBLIC IN FRANCK Henry 

E. Bourne 295 

PARTISANS AND HISTORIANS IN SOCIAL 

SCIENCE Charles Bichmond Henderson . . 296 
Wells's A Modem Utopia. — George's The Menace 
of Privilege. — London's The War of the Classes. — 
Holland's The Commonwealth of Man. — Grinnell's 
Social Theories and Social Facts. — Ashley's The 
I*r(^Tess of the German Working Classes. — 
Devine's EfBciencv and Relief. — Taylor's Agri- 
cultural Economics. — Spargo's The Bitter Cry of 
the Children. 

BRIEFS ON NTIW BOOKS 298 

Essays, chiefly Shakespearean. — American man- 
ners and customs in '76. — The problems of heredity, 
studied in royal families. — Dreams and visions from 
"the heights." — Studies and speculations on the 
Earth and its foundation. — Landscape art and the 
modem Dutch artists. — The criticism of life and 
human ideals. — Early voyagers on the coast of 
New England. — Commemoration of a heroic deed. 
— Fish stories by an English sportsman. 

NOTES 302 

TOPICS IN LEADING PERIODICALS 303 

LIST OF NEW BOOKS 303 



GOVERXMENT DOCUMENTS. 

The largest printing and publishing estab- 
lishment in this eounti^, perhaps in the world, 
is conducted by the Federal Government at 
Washington. It is operated at an annual cost 
of from six to seven millions of dollars, it em- 
ploys about five thousand people, and it issues 
more than a thousand separate books and pam- 
phlets every year. A single publication, the 
" Year book " of the Department of Agrictdtiire, 
is published in an edition of half a million 
copies. The production and distribution of the 
millions of copies thus annually poured forth 
from the Government Printing Office naturally 
present a number of practical problems of the 
highest importance, and there is much evidence 
that these problems are dealt with in anything 
but the scientific spirit. To establish certain 
general principles in connection with this phase 
of governmental enterprise, and to suggest the 
reforms most greatly needed in the interests of 
rationality and economy, are the aims of a recent 
Bulletin of the New York State Library, pre- 
pared by the expert labors of jVIr. James Inger- 
soU Wyer. 

The first of the problems calling for consid- 
eration is that of cost of production. President 
Roosevelt has recently had something to say 
upon this subject, and has put it in his emphatic 
and effective way, with the consequence of a 
slight decrease (about three per cent), of last 
year's printing bill from that of the year pre- 
ceding. This is far from the reduction of fifty 
per cent that the President believes to be possi- 
ble, but it is at least a step in the right direction. 
The sweeping reduction thus suggested (in the 
Message of 1904) was to be brought about 
rather by a lessening of output than by a low- 
ering of labor-cost : expert private testimony, 
however, stands ready to declare that even the 
amoimt of printing now done would cost under 
private contract only from one-half to two-thirds 
of what is now paid for it. It will thus be seen 
that a combination of both these methods of 
economy might be made to reduce the appro- 
priation for printing purposes to about one-third 
of its present amount. Such a saving is well 
worth attempting, even in the face of the dis- 
heartening thought that the sum saved might 
very likely go to help building another battle- 



284 



THE DIAL 



[May 1, 



ship, or to subsidize a few ship-owners, or to 
increase the monstrous extravagance of the pen- 
sion system, or to stuff the " pork-barrel " of 
appropriations for rivers and harbors and pub- 
lic buildings. 

The wastefulness of the methods employed by 
the Government Printing Office becomes obvious 
upon the most superficial inquiry. It has for 
long been nothing short of a national scandal 
that the aid of labor-saving machmery should 
have been rejected at the arrogant behest of the 
labor-unions. This evil has been in part reme- 
died, but much yet remains to be accomplished. 
The needless multiplication of jobs is an evil 
inherent in every governmental enterprise, but 
the public has a right to be indignant at the 
bare-faced mamier in which, until recently, the 
printing business of the United States was con- 
ducted with an eye single to the amoimt of 
patronage that was to be got out of it. There 
are also many minor sources of wastefiUness. 
There is the imnecessary duplication of material, 
there is the printing of matter that serves only 
to magnify the importance of the bureau or 
individual that produces it, and there is the pub- 
lication of editions so large that they cannot even 
be forced as gifts upon an unwilling public. 
The statistics for 1904 report the destruction as 
waste paper of no less than 126,112 volumes of 
public documents, which fact offers an eloquent 
revelation of haphazard management. 

The methods employed in the distribution of 
government docmnents appear to be as haphaz- 
ard as the methods of production. There are, 
to begin with, " depository libraries," which 
receive fidl sets, and " remainder libraries," 
which get the fractional remnants of editions not 
otherwise exhausted. The system of depository 
libraries produces some curious results. All 
state libraries are authorized depositories, and 
each member of Congress may designate a library 
on his own account. For example, " though 
there are ten depository libraries in Minnesota, 
the third city in the state, Diduth, has none, 
and there is not one within one hundred and fifty 
nules either in Minnesota, Wisconsin, or Michi- 
gan, while the library designated for the district 
in which Duluth is located is at a high school in 
a town of five or six thousand people." Again, 
Mr. Wyer ventures to wonder, and we may 
wonder with him, " Why the Woman's Harmony 
Club of Smith Centre, Kansas, the Public Li- 
brary of Hopkinsville, Kentucky (which does not 
appear on the Commissioner of Education's 
latest list), and the Ladies' Library Association, 
Greenville, Michigan, are on the depository list ; 



why there are four depository libraries in Nash- 
ville and only one in Memphis ; why there are 
two in Tallahassee with three thousand inhabi- 
tants and only two in Cleveland with four hun- 
dred thousand ; five in New Orleans and but 
two in either San Francisco or Buffalo." And 
the wonder is accentuated when we attempt to 
realize in imagination the actual receipt and 
housing by, say, the Woman's Harmony Club 
of Smith Centre, Kansas, of the more than five 
hundred volumes that are automatically lavished 
upon a depository library. 

The unsuspecting individual, no less than the 
unprepared library, is also the victim of this in- 
discriminate bounty. Every member of Con- 
gress has something like a couple of thousand 
volumes at his disposal annually, and feels bound 
to scatter them broadcast to gladden the hearts 
of his constituents. " The over-zealous Con- 
gressman means well without doubt, but beware 
of him, specially if he be a new one with first 
enthusiasm and a desire to do favors to every 
man, woman, and prospective voter in his district. 
He is very likely to make your library the dump- 
ing ground for all the scraps, remamders, and 
job lots of documents, bound and imboxmd, which 
he can beg, coax, or wheedle from his brother 
Congressmen or the government officers. You 
first hear of his benefaction when the postmaster 
informs you of one or a dozen sacks of maU at 
the office for you." This is a case in which there 
ceases to be a virtue in the familiar counsel about 
gift horses. As a mere matter of self-defence, 
the mouth of this particular horse should be 
gently but firmly opened, and his teeth carefidly 
examined, before he is admitted into the stable. 

Even the library, which is popularly supposed 
to be an institution that welcomes books, may be 
seriously embarrassed by the supply of free liter- 
ature. A depository library must find a hundred 
feet of new shelving every year for this particidar 
accretion, which is no easy matter for a large 
institution, and a quite impossible matter for a 
small one. Then of course there is the further 
demand which these books make upon the admin- 
istrative expenses of the library. " It is certainly 
true," says our writer, " that the sudden sight 
of a government document fills the breast of the 
average librarian with sensations ranging from 
vague distrust and uncertainty to a distinct sink- 
ing of the heart and a feeling of real dread and 
helplessness. One librarian, very capable and 
sensible and not at all cowardly in most things, 
carefully sets aside on a particular shelf each 
government document as it reaches her library, 
letting them accumulate there till long after she 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



285 



might have made some of them very useful, wait- 
ing, as she expresses it, ' till she gets up courage 
enough to tackle them.' " This is by no means 
humorous exaggeration ; it is a literal portrayal 
of the attitude of most librarians toward these 
portentous guests from the Government Print- 
ing Office. 

As a matter of fact (and of common sense), 
only the largest libraries should attempt to 
accommodate these books in complete sets, or 
in anything but a narrowly limited selection. 
And the chief value of the Bulletin in which 
Mr. T\"yer has discussed the subject lies in the 
guidance it offers to the small library. It tells 
what publications are of sufficient usefulness to 
deserve a place in the lesser collections, and it 
also teUs how to classify and catalogue them. 
This information is of the greatest practical 
value, and the New York State Library is to 
be thanked for having provided it in so con- 
venient a form. AYe may have to wait a long 
while for any general reform in the methods of 
production and distribution, but every library 
may do something on its own account to make 
the best of a bad matter and to adapt a faidty 
svstem to everyday needs. 



AX APOSTLE O F CLE AR THINKING. 

" The man who impressed me most of them all," 
said a distinguished American after visiting, in an 
official capacity, most of the leading statesmen of 
Em-ope. " was John Stuart Mill. You placed before 
him the facts on which you sought his opinion. He 
took them, gave you the different ways in which they 
might fairly be looked at, balanced the opposing con- 
siderations, and then handed you a final judgment 
in which nothing was left out. His mind worked like 
a splendid piece of machinery ; you supply it with 
raw materials, and it turns you out a perfectly fin- 
ished product." 

A centurj- has passed since John Stuart Mill was 
born*; a third of a centurj', nearly, since he diedt ; 
but his life and work have not yet ceased, and will not 
soon cease, to interest and instruct. Much of his 
teaching may have become obsolete in that best sense 
whereby a doctrine, through general adoption, loses 
its former significance, and some of his precepts have 
undoubtedly been superseded ; but the man's charac- 
ter and aims still exert upon us a very sensible degree 
of that extraordinary influence felt by his contem- 
poraries, and still excite something of the admiration 
that even his opponents were forced to bestow. 

The flaws that can be picked in his experience- 
philosophy, the unsatisfactoriness of his ultilita- 
rianism, the inconsistencies into which he was be- 

• May 20. 1806. 
t May 8, 1873. 



trayed when in later life he undertook to write on 
religion, need not here concern us ; what does interest 
us is the man's ardent devotion to the amelioration 
of our lot through the enlightenment of intellectual 
blindness and the straightening out of crooked pro- 
cesses of thought. His heart was, after alL, better 
than his head, which is saying a good deaL " A hook 
in breeches," he was often called ; and Carlyle, after 
reading his autobiography, denominated the writer 
"a thing of mechanized iron," and his book "the 
autobiography of a steam engine," utterly lacking in 
human qualities. But Mr. Frederic Harrison and 
others who knew him have testified to the warmth of 
his emotions and the nobility of his nature, while 
such records as we have of his life present numerous 
instances of generous self-sacrifice and of unusual 
kindness of heart. So ardent in fact was his tempera- 
ment, beneath his perfect self-discipline, that it has 
been said of him, as was said of his admired Tui^t. 
by Condorcet, that he was "a volcano clothed in 
ice." The ice in Mill's case was the result of a frigidly 
unemotional training received at the hands of a se- 
verely exacting father. Bishop ThirlwaU, in one of 
his letters, comes near the truth in calling Mill *' a 
noble spirit who had the misfortune of being edu- 
cated by a narrow-minded pedant, who cultivated his 
intellectual faculties at the expense of all the rest, yet 
did not succeed in stifling them" (t. e., the non- 
inteUectual faculties). In similar vein. Professor 
George S. Morris writes: "I conclude that J. S. 
Mill's greatest personal misfortune was that he was 
bom the son of James Mill, and not of Johann Gott- 
lieb Fichte. He presents the appearance of a noble 
nature confined in intellectual fetters, which, forged 
for him, he himself did his best to rivet upon himself 
without wholly succeeding. He attracts a sympathy 
at once regretful and affectionate. Perhaps his spec- 
ulative failures, engraved already so conspicuously 
upon the tablets of the intellectual history of his race, 
may contribute more for the world's final instruc- 
tion than the inconspicuous successes of many another 
less renowned." 

A more repressive influence than the elder Mill's 
on anything like boyish spirits, or the outbreak of 
those nameless enthusiasms that belong to healthy 
adolesence, could not well be conceived. Life, to James 
Mill, was at best a necessarj- evil, to be gone through 
with as much avoidance of pain as possible, and with 
little or no expectation of pleasure. Yet even he 
gave at least one proof of the impracticability of so 
drearv a doctrine. As a penniless literary adven- 
turer in London, he allowed himself to fall in love, to 
marrj', and to become the father of a family, eight 
children being born to him. This was a course of 
conduct than which, as his son points out, nothing 
could be more at variance with his later teachings ; 
and James ^lill himself, as if repenting of this con- 
cession to the promptings of nature, sought to atone 
for it by a harshness toward wife and children that 
attracted the notice of visitors. It is significant that 
the son, in his autobiography, makes no mention, or 
next to none, of his mother. He would almost seem 



286 



THE DIAL 



[May 1 



to have had no mother, but to have sprung, Minerva- 
like, in full intellectual panoply from his father's brain. 
Of the training he received from his father, of its 
inhibitive no less than its educative influence, much 
might be said. That it habituated him to the doing 
of violence to his own deeper and warmer nature, 
many indications, pathetic to us now, go to prove. 
Perhaps most if not all of the inconsistencies and self- 
contradictions that we encounter in his philosophy 
are traceable to the glaring defects in that astonishing 
system of " cram " to which he was early subjected. 
Lisping Greek vocables at three, he had, by the time 
he was eight years old, gone through .^sop's Fables, 
the whole of Herodotus and of Xenophon's Cyro- 
paedia, the Anabasis wholly or in part, the Memora- 
bilia of Socrates, some of the lives of the philosophers 
by Diogenes Laertius, a part of Lucian, two orations 
of Isocrates, and six dialogues of Plato. If the list 
makes us gasp, we are in danger of losing our breath 
entirely when we reflect that in those days Greek- 
English lexicons were not, and their Greek-Latin 
progenitors were shut to Mill because he had not yet 
learned Latin. His father, engaged at the same table 
in writing his monumental *' History of British In- 
dia," served him as Greek dictionary, — an exertion 
of patience on the part of this impatient and hard- 
worked man that must be placed to his credit. Fur- 
ther details of this remarkable experiment in education 
need not here be given. The Autobiography and 
Professor Bain's life of Mill contain fuU informa- 
tion. The pupil's loyalty to his teacher in after life, 
despite the warping and stunting effects of this in- 
human system of training, is one of the most pathetic 
and also one of the most admirable traits of Mill's 
character. Of the insufficiency of his education to 
satisfy the cravings of his deeper self, he experienced 
an early proof ; although it was to no culpability on 
his father's part that he ascribed the painful crisis 
through which he passed in 1826. Taught to believe 
in the greatest-happiness principle of Bentham and 
his disciple, the elder Mill, the young man suddenly 
realized that, were the greatest immediate happiness 
of the greatest number to be attained, he for one 
should still cherish unsatisfied longings. This dis- 
covery plunged him into a state of deep and long- 
continued dejection, from which he at last fought his 
way out by the help of Wordsworth's poetry, and with 
the hard-earned conviction that the happiness prin- 
ciple, however irrefutable in theory, cannot stand 
the test of practice, and that happiness itself, even 
though the end and aim of. our desires, is not to be 
attained by directly seeking it. But though he was 
forced to make this partial surrender, he continued 
to the last to maintain, with that doggedness of in- 
tellect that refused to deny theoretical principles in 
which he had been drilled, that " happiness is the 
test of aU rules of conduct and the end of life." To 
be sure, it may be said in passing, a definition of 
" happiness " might conceivably be so framed as to 
render this theory acceptable to the austerest moralist, 
and perhaps it was with some such definition in mind 
that the theory came at last to be held by Mill. So 



much at least is true, that he, like the rest of us, must 
have held changing notions of what constitutes true 
happiness, as he advanced from the cradle to the 
grave. If it be true, as Professor Jevons has ven- 
tured to assert in criticising Mill, that "there is 
hardly one of his more important and peculiar doc- 
trines which he has not himself amply refuted," this 
is due, as has already been said, to the conflict be- 
tween the precepts impressed on his intellect by his 
father and the promptings of his own more ardent 
nature. 

Despite all failures in his life-long endeavor to 
arrive at truth. Mill may nevertheless be styled the 
apostle of clear thinking. The weak parts of his 
abstract speculation lose their importance in com- 
parison with the indomitable passion for justice with 
which he strove to disseminate the truth as embodied 
in practical reforms. Mr. John Morley, writing of 
Mill's resemblance to Turgot and of " the nobleness 
and rarity of this type," says : " Its force lies not in 
single elements, but in that combination of an ardent 
interest in human improvement with a reasoned 
attention to the law of its conditions, which alone 
deserves to be honoured with the high name of wis- 
dom. This completeness was one of the secrets of 
Mr. Mill's peculiar attraction for young men, and 
for the comparatively few women whose intellectual 
interest was strong enough to draw them to his books. 
He satisfied the ingenuous moral ardour which is 
instinctive in the best natures, untU the dust of daily 
life dulls or extinguishes it, and at the same time he 
satisfied the rationalistic qualities, which are not less 
marked in the youthful temperament of those who 
by-and-by do the work of the world. This mixture 
of intellectual gravity with a passionate love of im- 
provement in all the aims and instruments of life, 
made many intelligences alive, who would otherwise 
have slumbered, or sunk either into a dry pedantry 
on the one hand, or a windy, mischievous philan- 
thropy on the other. . . . He recognized the social 
destination of knowledge, and kept the elevation of 
the great art of social existence ever before him, as 
the ultimate end of all speculative activity." 

It was as a clear thinker and cogent reasoner, not 
by any imposing and majestic authority, that he won 
over his followers and still commands the admiration 
of his readers. The impersonal but irresistible per- 
suasion of truth itself appeals to us in his pages. No 
drum-and-trumpet proclamations, but rather self- 
effacement and a modest reverence for the sacred 
purity of truth, are what we find in his life and works. 
So little did he seek the fame of a discoverer of truth, 
if only the truth might finally be reached, that he 
took more pains to disguise and obscure his origi- 
nality than most writers do to give prominence to 
theirs. He accords so much credit to his predecessors, 
even where he differs from them, that, as Professor 
Cairnes has remarked in discussing his " Political 
Economy," he seems to leave little credit to himself. 
It is this attitude of detachment, of freedom from 
prejudice, of willingness and even eagerness to be 
refuted if he is in the wrong, that makes Mill so 



1906.] 



THE DIAL. 



287 



attractiYe to the lover of fair play. " I found hardly 
any one," he tells us in writing of himself, '' who 
made such a point of examining what was said in 
defence of all opinions, however new or however old, 
in the conviction that even if they were errors there 
might be a substratum of truth underneath them, 
and that in any case the discovery of what it was that 
made them plausible, would be a benefit to truth." 

Mill was happily situated for the prosecution of 
his favorite studies. Holding an increasingly remu- 
nerative position in the India House, where his duties 
were not very burdensome, and from which he retired 
on a handsome pension at fiftj--two, he could devote 
his hours of leisure to the writing of books whose 
pecuniary' success or failure was a minor considera- 
tion. As he himself has well said, •' the writings by 
which one can live are not the writings which them- 
selves live, and are never those in which the writer 
does his best."' It was characteristic of him, too, 
that he early shook off those irksome bonds to whose 
constraint the frequenters of fashionable society 
think themselves obliged to submit. " I was enabled," 
he says, writing of himself at the age of thirty-seven, 
'*to indulge the inclination, natural to thinking 
persons when the age of boyish vanity is once past, 
for limiting my own society to a very few persons. 
Greneral society, as now carried on in England, is so 
insipid an affair even to the persons who make it 
what it is, that it is kept up for any reason rather 
than the pleasure it affords." Of the impression he 
himself made on others in society, we have abundant 
testimony, mostly favorable. Carlyle's description 
of his conversation as '• sawdustish " we must hold 
to be rather ill-natured than apt. But would any 
talker in Carlyle's company receive his unqualified 
praise ? '• His [Mill's] demeanor with reference to 
the other participants in the conversation," says Pro- 
fessor Bain, his biographer and intimate friend, 
"was sufficiently marked. He never lectured or 
declaimed, or engrossed the talk. He paused at due 
intervals, to hear what the others had to say ; and 
not merely heard, but took in, and embodied that in 
his reply. With him, talk was, what it ought to be, 
an exchange of information, thought and argument ; 
and an exchange of sympathies when the feelings 
were concerned. He did not care to converse on any 
other terms than perfect mutualitj'. He would 
expound or narrate at length when it was specially 
wished ; and there were, of course, subjects that it 
was agreeable to him to dilate upon : but he wished 
to be in accord with his hearers, and to feel that 
they also had due openings for expressing concur- 
rence or otherwise." 

Characteristic of this desire to let the light in from 
all sides, in the interest of clear thinking and right 
reasoning, was his attitude as a parliamentary candi- 
date. Excepting the one subject of religion, which 
could well be excluded as irrelevant, he invited ques- 
tions and objections of whatever sort when he ap- 
peared on the platform to address the voters of West- 
minster. The wit and readiness there displayed by 
him, to the surprise and delight of his acquaintance, 



must have contributed no little to his election, to 
which he had conscientiously refused to contribute 
anything in money. One reply of his, a reply of two 
words only, to an opponent's question, is so character- 
istic of his ethical and intellectual honesty, that it de- 
serves mention here. Asked by a hostile hearer, who 
hoped to overwhelm him with confusion, whether he 
had in any of his writings called the English working 
classes liars. Mill promptly and calmly answered, 
" I did." After a pause to recover from their aston- 
ishment, his hearers broke into enthusiastic applause, 
and acknowledged, in the words of a spokesman, 
that they wished, not to be flattered, but to be told 
of their faults. 

Minor biographical details of this kind, even in 
so short an article as the present, need no apology 
if we bear in mind that a thinker's life is the master- 
key to the interpretation of his thought. Through the 
allurements of biography some readers, previously 
shrinking from the task, may perchance be won over 
to the serious study of the grand problems of phi- 
losophy, to a sense of their perennial digfnity and 
beauty, and to a conviction of their present vital 
import. The lives of few philosophers are so worthy 
of contemplation, so free from disquieting and dis- 
enchanting features, so stimulative to high thought 
and noble endeavor, as the life of John Stuart Mill. 
Pebcy F. Bickxell. 



COMMUNICA TION. 



IMPROVISED MEANS OF NAVAL WARFARK 
(To the Editor of Th« Dial.) 

The commtuiication from Captain A. T. Mahan, in 
your issue of April 16, relative to my former article on 
the fighting value of privateers in the war of 1812, is 
interesting and valuable. I seem, however, to have 
worded my article in a way that has caused me to be 
misunderstood. Will you therefore give me a little 
further space in which to explain my meaning, and also 
to add a few words in support of one contention that I 
made? I should care less about the matter had the 
articles appeared in a publication of less weight and 
importance than The Diai. ; as it is, I feel that I ought 
in justice to myself to add something further. 

The passage showing that I was not fully understood 
is that with which Captain Mahan closes his communi- 
cation. He admits (earher) that we all have liberty to 
express our opinions, and thinks that, though he regards 
my contention as wrong, the chief harm is in what it 
preaches as to the future. He believes that it reflects 
a dangerous tendency of the times with regard to our 
naval policy. I wish to say, then, that I did not for a 
moment mean to advocate a policy of " trusting to im- 
provised means " as to our naval defenses. On the con- 
trary, I beheve that the changed conditions of naval 
warfare call for the most careful and elaborate prepara- 
tions in the matter of fighting ships. Our long Atlantic 
seaboard needs a strong naval defense, just as a tall 
boxer needs his two strong arms to protect both his face 
and his body. 

I trust that I have made myself clear on that point, 
and that I have not urged our success (whatever that 



288 



THE DIAL 



[May 1, 



success was) in 1812 as a justification for trusting in 
*' improvised means " of defense now. 

Captain Mahan further says that he is not correctly 
quoted as admitting that our privateers in 1812 were 
largely instrumental in bringing about the conclusion of 
that war. If I have been dull in understanding Cap- 
tain Mahan's meaning, I am sorry for it ; but I must 
remark that I did not quote his book as wholly sustain- 
ing my contention. I said that his book admitted it 
" in part." I supposed that it did, and quoted from it 
a passage regarding the injury done to British commerce 
by our cruisers, including privateers, in the course of the 
war. I now imderstand Captain Mahan to mean that, 
while the harm was great, it was not much greater than 
England had previously sustained from France, and so 
was of moderate importance. The book can be read, 
and the meaning judged. I certainly meant to be fair. 

As to the matter in the first instance at issue, it would 
appear almost presumptuous for one not an acknowl- 
edged authority to contend with one of Captain Mahan's 
standing ; yet it is also true that great authorities differ, 
and it is better to think for oneself at times, and be 
wrong, than not to think at all. I will try to be brief 
in covering this point. 

Captain Mahan says, speaking of the war, " We had 
fought and lost." This is seemingly because Great 
Britain refused to change her position on either of the 
issues for which we went to war, — a purely technical 
conclusion, as it seems to me. As a matter of fact, we 
had won the greater mmiber of our sea-battles, while 
Great Britain had not done anything of moment to us 
on land ; and the fact that after this she nearly or wholly 
discontinued her odious impressment practices, shows 
how she regarded our attitude in that matter. If we 
had not fought her, it is likely that she woidd have con- 
tinued to impress American seamen; as a result of the 
war, she stopped. We certainly had reason, if we may 
trust some information that has come down to us, to 
believe that she meant to stop the practices complained 
of, but regarded it as humiliating to say so formally. 

As to the amoimt of harm done by our privateers, 
which was the original question at issue. Captain Mahan 
now says that the British Minister for Foreign Affairs, 
who was abroad at the time, and who conducted the 
business of his office for the time by letter, does not even 
mention it; furthermore, that the loss was not much 
greater than in the war with France. It is easy to be 
wrong, but it seems to me that the omission by the 
Minister to comment on this matter is not a proof that 
it was not felt to be serious. It might have been seri- 
oiis, and yet not have seemed sufficiently so to compel 
immediate attention. It must be remembered that the 
loss inflicted on English commerce by our privateers 
was mainly falling on the people, and not on the gov- 
ernment direct; and that the British government of that 
day, though in a way responsible to the people, by no 
means always bent its immediate views to agree with 
the popular desire. 

Moreover, it is not alone the amoimt of damage that 
is done in the course of a war that is most effective. As 
one writer puts it, " The object of all wars is to operate 
on the mind of the enemy to the extent of bringing him 
to the desired terms." What effect did our privateers 
have on the public mind of England, in addition to the 
harm they actually accomplished? It is of course impos- 
sible to answer this question; we can only guess. But 
we know that our privateers were far more daring in 
their exploits than were the French, and that the fear 



of them helped to raise the price of many staples of 
living to a serious pitch — flour to S58. per barrel, beef 
to $38., etc. We must bear in mind that the contests 
of our regular navy with England's did not result in the 
capture of very many ships, though relatively we made 
an excellent showing; and yet our victories made a 
powerful impression in England. The victories of our 
privateers were generally of a kind to touch the pockets 
of the English rather than their pride, and so were not 
of a kind to call for so much public comment ; never- 
theless they told in a very practical direction. Let me 
quote a little on this point. Speaking of the loss of the 
first English frigate, the London " Times " said : 

" We know not any calamity of twenty times its amoimt that 
might have been attended with more serious consequences to 
the worsted party, had it not been counterbalanced by a con- 
temporaneous advantage of a much greater magnitude " [refer- 
ring to Wellington's victories in Spain]. 

Yet England had lost one thirty-eight gun frigate out of 
a navy consisting of hundreds of ships. Governments 
where the people, if pressed too hard, will rise and 
overturn the existing authority, caimot in war go the 
limit of the people's resources. An attempt to do very 
much less has often brought rulers and ministers disas- 
trously to the ground. 

Again, "The Times," in speaking of the victory of 
the "United States" over the "Macedonian," says: 

"Oh, what a charm is here dissolved! What hopes will be 
excited in the breasts of our enemies ! " etc. 
Again a mere frigate action, and the loss of a thirty- 
eight, with its captain and a few men killed. 

Mr. Spears, in his " History of our Navy," says : 

" The selfish interest of an individual in his property is, as has 
often been noted, a pledge of good citizenship. His selfish inter- 
est in his property, bluntly speaking, tends to making him 
behave himself becomingly. . . . The same rule applies to 
nations. The possession of property liable to be lost through 
war is a pledge of peace on the part of the nation owning it." 

That this " selfish interest " would or did endure quietly 
the rise of prices in England caused largely by our pri- 
vateers, and the other troubles consequent on this har- 
rowing kind of warfare, is certainly hard to believe. It 
does not agree with what the ship-owners as well as the 
consumers said at the time. 

Finally (since I have already used too much space), 
I will finish my quotations by a brief one from " The 
American Merchant Marine," page 128: 

" The master of a British merchantman who had been three 
times captured and as many_ times recaptured, said that he had 
sighted no fewer than ten American privateers in a single voyage. 
. . . But the most dramatic and effective work of the privateers 
was right on the British coast, and in the chops of the English 
Channel. This produced in Britain a comical blending of fury 
and despondency, which found voice in the memorials of the 
merchants of Liverpool and other seaport towns. A typical 
remonstrance is that of the merchants of Glasgow." 

This remonstrance is given in full, but is too long to 
insert here. It recites that insurance was affected, a 
heavy tax liad to be paid for convoys, etc. It is worth 
reading entire, as mdeed is the rest of the book, if one 
wishes to see just what our practical " irregulars " did 
at that time. 

With all this and much more before me, I must still 
believe that our privateers were a mighty factor, if not 
the mightiest, in causing Great Britain, relieved of 
Xapoleon, and before she had heard of her defeat at 
New Orleans, to consent to make peace. That we did 
not win as to the form of this, is true ; but I am unable 
to see why we did not win the substance. 

F. H. COSTELLO. 
Bangor, Maine, April 19, 1906. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



289 



^ht Beto ^oohs. 



Three Decades of the Amebic ax 
uxtversity.* 



The history of the American " university " as 
distinguished from the '• college " can hardly be 
said to begin before the seventies of the last 
century ; and mthout the least disparagement of 
any other seat of learning, it may be said that 
the establishment of Johns Hopkins marked the 
opening of an era. In 1873 the will of a Bal- 
timore merchant provided for the founding of a 
new imiversit}-, and a propitious mood of fortxme 
which had favored the selection of a sagacious 
body of trustees extended its favor to their ap- 
pointment of a capable president. Daniel Coit 
Oilman, bom at Norwich in Connecticut, became 
a graduate of Yale in 1852, and continued his 
studies both there and at Harvard as well as in 
Europe. The following years saw him connected 
with the Sheffield Scientific School and holding 
a chair at Yale, imtil, in 1872, he was called to 
the presidency of the University of California, 
where "he helped to rescue a State University 
from the limitations of a college of agriculture 
and enlarge it to meet the requirements of a 
magnificent commonwealth.'' With this valuar 
ble training the first president of Johns Hopkins 
brought an invaluable spirit, — a combination 
which made him not only a master craftsman 
before the final laimching of the imiversity, but 
a reliable and confidence-inspiring pilot for the 
first twenty-five years of the subsequent voyage. 
That the waters shoidd always be smooth, and 
that favoring breezes shoidd always sweU the 
sails, no pilot coidd ensure. Of the stormy 
waters, however, only incidental mention is made 
in the present volume. 

The new president suggested the emphasizing 
of the idea of a " university " and the desira- 
bility of building up an institution quite different 
from a '• coUege "; he wished " to make an ad- 
dition to American education, not introduce a 
rival." The times were ripe. Opportunities for 
graduate study were then few ; the relation of 
the professional schools to the college of liberal 
arts was but ill adjusted ; research was largely 
a matter of indi\'idual initiative and pursuit; 
facilities for the publication of original articles 
were inadequate ; withal, there was a goodly 
body of young men ready to profit by a better 
order of things. To the promotion of the new 

•The Launching of a University, and Other Papers. A 
Sheaf of R«nembrances. By Daniel Coit Oilman. New York: 
Dodd. Mead & Co. 



order. President Oilman devoted his exceptional 
ability- and energy. Sparing himself at not a 
single turn, he exhibited a laudable self-reliance ; 
but he exhibited also that strength of the strong 
which can profit by the strength of others. As 
a people, we owe much to James B. Angell, 
Charles W. Eliot, and Andrew D. WTiite ; but 
for no other service should we be more grateful 
than for their timely encouragement and practi- 
cal helpfidness in the formative period of the 
new university. Their willing kindness is grate- 
fully recognized in the dedication of the volume 
before us, and it will not be forgotten by future 
generations. 

The far-seeing head of the institution destined 
to be so important staked everything upon his 
facidty. Again and again he insists on the 
supreme importance of the teaching staff in a 
university, a fact not undeserving of notice in 
these days when the university president looms 
so large before the public eye and the ordinary 
professor is lost in the crowd. " But the idea," 
he says, " is not lost sight of, that the power of 
the university will depend upon the character of 
its resident staff of permanent professors. It is 
their researches in the library and laboratory ; 
their utterances in the classroom and in private 
life : their examples as students and investiga- 
tors, and as champions of the truth ; their pub- 
lications, through the journals and the scientific 
treatises, which will make the University of 
Baltimore an attraction to the best students, and 
serviceable to the intellectual growth of the 
land." But if President Oilman staked every- 
thing upon his facidty, he took good care that 
his stake should not be lost. The first professors 
were Sylvester, Oildersleeve, Remsen, Rowland, 
Morris, and ^lartin ; a few years later, Welch, 
Halsted, Kelly, and Osier formed the nucleus 
of the medical facult}*. These ten names in 
themselves would constitute a eulogy on the wis- 
dom of the trustees, which was doubtless in this 
connection the wisdom of the President. All of 
the hopes implied in the above quotation were 
realized, and more ; for these giants may be said 
to have fashioned the mould for the future of 
the American university. 

To a cause, however, as to an individual, 
blessing comes but seldom imattended by bane ; 
and the new order of things was not productive 
solely of good. When the far-reaching benefits of 
Johns Hopkins and the other great universities 
Ijecame obvious, donations on a magnificent scale 
began to grow common, until, as our author 
points out, more than one institution to-day has 
an endowment larger than that of all the insti- 



290 



THE DIAL 



[May 1, 



tutions which were in existence in 1850. But 
if a strong university is a great good, a nominal 
university is a great evil ; and we find the dan- 
ger noted that " the country will soon have a 
superfluity of feeble universities, as it has had 
a superfluity of endowed colleges." When a 
searcher for real conditions in our higher educa- 
tion begins to peer behind the august mask of 
the word " university," he finds everything from 
the highest type of an institution of learning to 
the lowest representative of the propagation of 
vanity, — everything, in fact, from Harvard to 
an institution of which it can only be said that 
the dead are there. When a denominational 
university with a small facidty confers more 
advanced degrees than Yale, words lose their 
meaning. Flagrant cases, however, will ulti- 
mately defeat their own ends, by cheapening the 
donor's degrees in competition with the degrees 
of standard institutions ; and on the whole we are 
doing better. Another danger, — that graduate 
work, with its insistence on research and printed 
results, would lead to sterile investigation and 
unprofitable publication, — is upon us. Too 
often we investigate the fluctuations in the price 
of woolen socks in New England during two colo- 
nial decades, when we might more profitably be 
acquiring a decent historical horizon and eco- 
nomic perspective ; nor should we be eager to put 
forth a thesis on the hiccough of Aristophanes 
in Plato's " Symposium " before we have read the 
" Republic." With regard to printing, we are 
the victims of a veritable cacoethes ; we have too 
many " Studies," " Investigations," and similar 
publications of such strange double power that 
in them a worthy article may be entombed or 
an unworthy article be given a temporary sem- 
blance of life. To change our author's words 
a little, there should be less printing and more 
editing. Furthermore, the young instructor, 
fresh from the seminar, is sadly inclined to be a 
pedant rather than a pedagogue ; the minute in- 
vestigator too often fails to become the inspiring 
teacher, and " it does not appear that the under- 
graduates receive better instruction than they 
received in the earlier days." Howbeit, all of 
these features are incidental, and can be changed . 
As to any responsibility therefor on the part of 
Johns Hopkins, we may quote a characteristic 
statement made by Professor GUdersleeve years 
ago to the present writer. " Young man," he 
said, " whatever benefits have accrued to Amer- 
ican education from graduate work may be 
traced to Johns Hopkins ; the evils all came 
from . . ." 

"The Laimching of a University," consist- 



ing of a " Sheaf of Remembrances," is divided 
into two parts, the first (chapters I. -IX.) being 
concerned more immediately with the Johns 
Hopkins University, the second (chapters X.- 
XXII.) embodying various addresses. The 
previous publication of certain portions is men- 
tioned in the preface. The thoroughly inter- 
esting first part, with chapters X. and XIV., 
would have made a valuable volume. " Fun- 
damental Principles," " The Original Faculty," 
" Some Noteworthy Teachers," " Resignation," 
" Remembrances," and " Research " are the 
captions of chapters that prove to be as fruitful 
as the headings suggest. Indeed, there is no 
disappointment save in the sixth chapter, which 
includes an accoimt of the establishment of the 
Carnegie Institution ; but here the disappoint- 
ment is keen. It wiU be remembered that the 
original purpose of Mr. Carnegie was " to make 
the gift directly to the nation, and for that 
reason he communicated an outline of his plan 
to the President of the United States, by whom 
it was received with the most generous appre- 
ciation. Reflection led to a change." It was 
about this reflection and change that we had 
hoped for enlightenment. Whatever title might 
have been given to an institution founded on 
the unchanged plans, it could have been made 
to mean a National University endowed with 
$10,000,000 as a mere beginning, admitting of 
correlation with existing governmental scientific 
departments and with other educational institu- 
tions of the country, incorporating the most 
advanced ideas and the highest ideals, and pro- 
viding thoroughly adequate means for investi- 
gation and leadership. Such an institution 
appeared to many educators as a wellspring of 
almost unlimited possibilities. When " reflec- 
tion led to a change," it was widely charged that 
a few eminent university leaders, fearing pos- 
sible competition for their own graduate schools, 
had fostered this reflection unduly ; it was, and 
is, generally believed that, at any rate, they 
could have ensured the success of the original 
conception of the " evangelist of beneficence " 
if they had deemed it best for our national edu- 
cational interests. From President Oilman we 
expected the enlightening word ; but darkness 
is still upon our eyes, and we must still believe 
where we cannot prove. That these eminent 
and honorable men must have been influenced 
by altruistic and compelling motives, we are 
all anxious to believe ; but it would have been 
pleasant to change faith for knowledge. In 
all ages the small have craved the confidences 
of the great. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



291 



The second part of Dr. Gilman's book inevi- 
tably suffers in comparison with the significant 
chapters of the first part. The topics include 
" Books and Politics," " De Juventute," " Greek 
Art in a Manufacturing Town," " Hand-Craft 
and Rede-Craft," " Civil Service Reform," and 
so forth. In the treatment, of course, there are 
always manifested sanity, lucidity, breadth of 
view, and generosity of sentiment ; but one or 
two of the addresses must strike a careful reader 
as approaching dangerously near to hack-work. 
One feels that the first part could have been 
wTitten by but few men, whereas the second could 
have been written by many, and might better 
have appeared as a separate volimie with a 
frankly descriptive title. A respectful reviewer 
may be allowed to submit that there are too many 
cases of the publication of miscellaneous essays 
and addresses imder attractive titles suggestive 
of imity of theme. Publishers admit that they 
are only human, — and on the whole it is per- 
haps desirable that university presidents should 
share that amiable weakness ; but the title on 
the cover ought to convey the same idea as the 
words on the title-page. It is needless to say 
that in the present instance the title-page is above 
reproach. 

Were the task not so uncongenial, it wovdd 
be possible to point out a few slips of the pen 
or lapses from careful jiresentation. A volume 
containing an address on Greek Art should 
hardly be guilty of the following : " The touch 
of Phidias was his own, and so inimitable that 
not long ago an American, scanning with his 
practised eye the galleries of the Louvre, dis- 
covered a fragment of the work of Phidias long 
separated from the other fragments by that 
sculptor which Lord Elgin had sent to London. 
The artist's stroke could not be mistaken, — it 
was his own, as truly as our sign-manuals, our 
autographs." Our author can refer only to the 
discovery by Waldstein of the Lapith head in 
the Louvre and its relation to one of the Parthe- 
non metopes, and he certainly leaves the impres- 
sion that Phidias actually carved the metopes 
with his own hand. Of course the metopes are 
the work of the great Athenian in a perfectly 
true sense ; but that they show the actual strokes 
of his chisel, few would venture to maintain. 
A slip of a different sort attached the heading 
" Incidents of the Early Years " to a chapter of 
which a fourth is devoted to the Carnegie Insti- 
tution founded so recently. Minor lapses and 
an occasional awkward sentence in a volume of 
three hundred and eighty-six pages are pardon- 
able even if undesirable. 



Our closing impression, however, should not 
be given by words suggestive of fault-finding. 
President Gilman's book has been welcome 
reading, and will doubtless be warmly received 
by all interested in higher education and in the 
history of our great institutions of learning. To 
few gleaners in this field is it allowed to present 
such a " sheaf of remembrances." 

F. B. R. Hellems. 



Two Views of a Great Exgl.ish Ktng.* 



It may seem to many that there is no great 
need for a new biography of Henry VIII. Few 
names in English history are more generally 
familiar than that of the second Tudor, and the 
leading facts of his long reign are known to all 
who have read the story of Britain. It is true, the 
world knows what happened in Henry's reign, 
but just why and how it happened is still a mat- 
ter of dispute. Especially when we approach the 
subject of the King's character and motives, of 
his plans and policies, of his personal achieve- 
ments and those due to his ministers, we meet 
the most diverse opinions. Where one writer 
condemns, another condones or justifies ; one 
offers an apology where another merely ventures 
to explain ; what one attributes to royal foresight 
another ascribes to the shrewdness of a councillor. 

This disagreement is due in part to the fact 
that the sources necessary to an exhaustive study 
of Henry's reign were not accessible to earlier 
writers. Recently, however, there have been col- 
lected from various parts of Europe — from 
Spain, France, Venice, Ireland, and Great Bri- 
tain, — thousands of documents dating from Tu- 
dor times, the study of which will add materially 
to our knowledge of the sixteenth century. These 
newer sources, we are told by Henry's most 
recent biographer, "probably contain at least a 
million definite facts relating to the reign of 
Henry VTII." To write the story of Henry's life 
and achievements is evidently no easy task. For- 
timately, however, the work of sifting and inter- 
preting these materials has been undertaken by 
one whose great knowledge of the Tudor period 
renders him pecidiarly fitted for such an effort. 
It was with pleasure that students noted three 
years ago that Prof, A. F. Pollard, of University 
College, London, had written a biography of 
Henry VEIL Unfortimately, the edition then 
published was of the more expensive order, and 

•Henby Vin. By A. F. Pollard. New York: Longmans 
Oreen, & Co. 

The Wives of Hekbt the Eighth. By Martin Hume. DIus- 
trated. New York: McClure, Phillips & Co. 



292 



THE DIAL 



[May 1, 



the work was consequently placed beyond the 
reach of the average book-buyer. Since then it 
has been revised and republished, and now 
appears as a plain, solid, but attractive volume, 
which the lover of history will be glad to possess. 

The story begins with a brief sketch of the 
early Tudors, in which the author emphasizes the 
fact that Henry's great strength lay in the pop- 
ular belief and fear that he alone stood between 
English prosperity and a return of the anarchy 
that England had experienced during the Wars 
of the Roses. In the next chapter we get a view 
of " Prince Henry and his environment," and an 
effort is made to account for his wonderful pop- 
ularity then and later. The average Englishman 
could not help admiring a prince who was the 
best athlete in the kingdom ; and, continues the 
author, if "there ascended the throne to-day a 
young prince, the hero of the athletic world, the 
finest oar, the best bat, the crack marksman 
of his day . . . endowed with the iron will, the 
instinctive insight into the hearts of his people, 
the profound aptitude for government that 
Henry VIII. displayed, he would be a rash man 
who would guarantee even now the integrity of 
parliamentary power or the continuance of cab- 
inet rule." From this passage, and others like 
it that might be quoted, it appears that Professor 
Pollard does not value the political sense of his 
countrymen very highly. But here we must be 
allowed to retain our doubts. 

In the third chapter we learn how Henry was 
taught statecraft. " The young King entered the 
arena of Europe, a child of generous impulse in 
a throng of hoary intriguers — Ferdinand, Max- 
imilian, Louis XII., Julius II., each of whom 
was nearly three times his age." The scheming 
and plotting of these royal highwaymen is told 
in striking terms. " But the meekest and saintli- 
est monarch could scarce pass unscathed through 
the baptism of fraud practised on Henry, and 
Henry was at no time saintly or meek." He 
learned that he too coidd employ the methods of 
diplomacy, so-called, and when the " hoary in- 
triguers" passed off the stage in the second decade 
of the sixteenth century, the centre of diplomatic 
intrigue shifted to the English court. 

The subject of foreign affairs continues 
through the following three chapters, with the 
interest centering about the person of Cardinal 
Wolsey. The Cardinal was, says Professor Pol- 
lard, "the greatest, as he was the last, of the 
ecclesiastical statesmen who have governed En- 
gland. As a diplomat pure and simple, he has 
never been surpassed ; and as an administrator 
he has had few equals." But the author does not 



believe that Wolsey 's management of affairs was 
ever so complete as has been thought. The King, 
though much taken up with theology, with his 
navy, with tournaments, and with a thousand 
other matters that appealed to the royal vanity, 
watched details very closely and became in- 
creasingly vigilant after 1519. Nor does he con- 
sider the passing of Wolsey as something to be 
regretted either by Henry or by the nation. 
Henry's government achieved nothing while the 
Cardinal was at the helm. It is true, he " staved 
off for many years the ruin of the church, but 
he only did it Ijy plunging England into the mael- 
strom of foreign intrigue and of futile wars." 

The discord that appeared in the royal famdy 
about 1527 is treated more from the political 
than from the domestic side. This subject, and 
the later matrimonial ventures of the King, the 
author cannot avoid discussing ; but he gives 
them no more space than their importance seems 
to demand. Henry had not been married long 
before serious misunderstandings arose in the 
royal household. Catherine was not only queen 
of England, she was also the accredited Spanish 
ambassador at the English court. As such, she 
strove earnestly, if not always tactfully, to hold 
Spain and England in close alliance ; but Henry 
soon found that to follow the erratic Ferdinand 
about as an ally was not only difficult but dan- 
gerous, and the queen's position soon became a 
trying one. To this was added personal bereave- 
ment in the death of nearly all her cliildren. 
Professor Pollard believes that " there is no rea- 
son to doubt Henry's assertion that he had come 
to regard the death of his cliildren as a Divine 
judgment, and that he was impelled to question 
his marriage by the dictates of conscience "; but 
he adds that conscience " often moves men in 
directions indicated by other than conscientious 
motives ; and of the other motives which influ- 
enced Henry's mind, some were respectable and 
some the reverse." 

Perhaps the strongest part of Professor Pol- 
lard's work is his account of the origin and 
progTess of the movement that separated Eng- 
land from Rome. With the origin of this move- 
ment the King's domestic difficidties had nothing 
to do. The author shows that the governing 
elements in England were at that time strongly 
anti-ecclesiastical. Any action taken in oppo- 
sition to Papacy was sure to be popidar ; and 
no one understood this better than Henry. The 
author also holds that while the King earlier in 
his reign respected Papacy more than any other 
monarch in Europe, he had always considered 
himself supreme ruler of the English church. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



293 



*' Even in the height of his fervor against heresy, 
Henry was in no mood to abate one jot or tittle 
of his royal authority in ecclesiastical matters." 

The question of ecclesiastical supremacy be- 
came a practical one in 1529, when the Pope 
allied himself to Henry's enemy Charles and 
transferred the hearing of the suit between 
Henry and Catherine to the Papal court. Henry 
inmiediately summoned Parliament, and the pro- 
cess of actual separation from Kome began. So 
obedient did this body seem to be, that it is often 
spoken of as a ser%ale Parliament. But Professor 
Pollard denies that it ever showed any signs of 
servility ; frequently, he says, it displayed the 
very opposite temper. Some historians believe 
that the King must have packed the Pai'liament ; 
but the author holds tliat this belief is not sup- 
ported by any evidence whatever. " The general 
harmony between King and Parliament was 
based on a fimdamental similarity of interests ; 
the harmony in detail was worked out, not by 
the forcefid exertion of Henry's will, but by Ins 
caref id and skilful manipulation of both Houses," 
especially of the House of Commons. 

No one can read the story of Henry's career, 
as Professor Pollard tells it, without feeling that 
he must have been a remarkable man. But that 
he was "the most remarkable man that ever sat 
on the English throne ' few are prepared to be- 
lieve. On the whole, it seems that the author's 
view of Henry's character as man and monarch 
is entirely too favorable. The unlovely side of 
the King's life is by no means ignored. " His 
besetting sin was egotism, a sin which princes 
can hardly and Tudors coidd nowise avoid "; and 
this egotism promoted the development of many 
other traits of the mean, mmianly sort. But this 
side of Henry's character is not given the usual 
prominence. The emphasis is placed on those 
qualities that made him a great king, shrewd- 
ness and energy, foresight and power. '• He had 
the strength of a lion, and like a lion he used it.'* 

When the reader passes from Professor 
PoUard's biography to Major Hume's history 
of Henry's marriages, he soon finds himself on 
a decidedly lower plane. The English is more 
colloquial and less dignified ; but as the subject 
itself frequently lacks in dignity, this can be 
forgiven. Major Hiune also has had access to 
great bodies of new sources, but in the inter- 
pretation of these he sometimes differs i-adically 
from the author just considered. Instead of the 
imposing monarch that Professor Pollard paints, 
he sketches a mean, cowardly, selfish wretch, 
whose abilities were extremely small, and whose 
vanity and wickedness alone were great. The 



author's purpose is to show how the powerful 
men who stood about the King made use of his 
weaknesses to further political and religious ends, 
and particularly " how each of his wives in turn 
was but an instrument of politicians, intended 
to sway the King on one side or the other." Thus 
Catherine stood for close relations with Rome and 
the Empire ; Anne Boleyn for a French alliance 
and Lutherz^n reform. After Anne's death, the 
two factions alternately dictated matrimonial 
terms to the King, imtil with Catherine Parr 
" the Protestants won the last trick." 

Major Himie admits that reform was in the 
air in the early sixteenth century, but he does 
not seem to think that England was seriously 
disaffected. "The real author of the great 
schism of England was not Anne or Cranmer, 
but Luther's enemy Charles V., the champion 
of Catholicism." Had he not so persistently 
urged the Pope to refuse the annulment of 
Henry's marriage (not through love or sym- 
pathy for his aunt, but to prevent an alliance 
between France and England), no one in En- 
land would have defied Rome and no schism 
would have appeared. 

The view that the author gives us of society 
during the reign of Henry VIII. is a dismal one. 
In his characterizations of the leading pei"Sons 
of the period, he displays no appreciation or sym- 
pathy ; apparently he finds no one with whom he 
can sjnnpathize unless it be the Emperor Charles. 
Catherine of Aragon, of whom the world would 
fain think with respect at least, is said to have 
been " no better than those about her in moral 
principle," not a saint or a meek martyr, but one 
who was " fully a match in duplicity for those 
against whom she was pitted." From one who 
speaks in this way of that strong and resolute 
queen, kindly treatment of Henry's other con- 
sorts, not to mention Cranmer and Cromwell, is 
not to be expected. 

There is much in both of these volumes that 
helps us to understand more fully this difficult 
age, but the great riddles of the Tudor period 
still remain unanswered. The rather attractive 
gentieman whom we learn to know in Professor 
Pollard's biography the world will probably not 
accept as the true Henry VIII. The question 
of the source of Henry's strength is not answered 
by saying, as Major Hmne virtually does, that 
he hatl no strength. On several minor points, 
also, the reviewer would like to question the 
interpretations proposed ; but he remembers that 
there are a million facts that he has not exam- 
ined, and considers it more discreet to refrain. 
Laurence M. Larson. 



294 



THE DIAJ^ 



[May 1, 



Slavery and its Aftermath.* 

That the Negro American has been the 
central fact of American history is illustrated 
by Mr. George S. Merriam's volume on " The 
Negro and the Nation"; and that he still occu- 
pies a considerable part of the stage is empha- 
sized by Mr. William A. Sinclair's perfervid 
rhetoric in his book called "The Aftermath of 
Slavery." The first is an octavo volume of 436 
pages which aims to show, in short chapters and 
in popular style, the connection of slavery with 
United States history. The result is a history 
of the United States with the Negro as the cen- 
tral fact. The narrative is perhaps naturally a 
bit disjointed and sketchy, and the almost inevit- 
able mistakes of the popidar writer have crept 
in — for instance, when the slave trade is said to 
have been made piracy in 1808 instead of 1820 
(p. 22), when Calhoun is made secretary of war 
in 1844 instead of secretary of state (p. 75), and 
Benjamin Harrison president at the tender age 
of seven (p. 71). Probably many such small 
errors and slips could be found, which, while they 
mar, do not by any means seriously detract from 
the real value of the work. 

This real value lies in the new point of view 
from which the Negro is studied. The literature 
of American slavery is large, and the literature 
of the " Negro problem " growing ; and yet we 
seldom get a sane, sober narrative which treats 
both these things as parts of one continuous 
whole, and that whole as one ordinary chapter of 
human history clustering about the rise of a na^ 
tion in a nation. The every-day point of view, 
therefore, the lack of partisanship or intense 
fervor, makes the book useful as a college text- 
book or as perhaps the only easily-obtainable 
simunary of an intensely-interesting history. 

Mr. Merriam's attitude toward the Negro, the 
South, and Slavery is on the whole the attitude 
of the Rebound, so to speak, — that is, of the mass 
of the thinking part of the nation who, having 
had their feelings intensely harrowed by slavery, 
wrought to fever heat by war, and worried by Re- 
construction, are now disposed to discoimt much 
of their former fervor, philosophize over events, 
and pass calm judgments on events that were not 
calm. ' The danger of this attitude is that often 
in an attempt to be judicious we miss the larger 
truth. For instance : is it true that the war was 

• The Nbgro and the Nation. A History of American Sla- 
very and Enfranchisement. By Qeorgre S. Merriam. New York : 
Henry Holt & Co. 

• The Aptebmath of Slavery. A Study of the Condition 
and Environment of the American Negro. By William A. 
Sinclair, A.M.,M.D. With an introduction by Thomas Went- 
worth Higginson, LL.D. Boston: Small, Maynard & Co. 



an economic catastrophe brought on by imwise 
political theorizing and precipitated by fanatics, 
or was it a great moral question of right and 
wrong which caused the economic and political 
crisis ? Mr. Merriam apparently would lean to- 
ward the second of these interpretations, and yet 
not wholly. He is fearful of being luijust to the 
South. His picture of slavery is not unpleasant, 
and there is a shade of something like contempt 
in his estimate of Nat Turner, John Brown, and 
William Lloyd Garrison. They had their plax3e, 
he would seem to say, and their virtues, but on 
the whole they did about as much harm as good, 
and were lamentably weak in the head. 

In other words, Mr. Merriam, in a generous 
attempt to be fair to the " other side," is in some 
respects unfair to the Abolitionist. Yet his sin- 
ning here is so mild compared with the Southern 
ranters and Northerners like the Columbia Uni- 
versity school of political fable that one lays 
down the book with a feeling of considerable 
satisfaction and with thankfulness for an author 
who stands on a broad platform of humanity and 
who hopes to hear " the pathetic melody of the 
Negro spirituals, the brave rollicking strains of 
' Dixie,' and the triumphant harmony of ' The 
Star-Spangled Banner ' blend and interweave in 
the Symphony of America" (p. 411). 

Both Mr. Merriam and Mr. Sinclair believe 
in national aid to Southern education ; but what 
Mr. Merriam suggests as possibly wise, Mr. 
Sinclair demands as " an imperative necessity." 
These pa8sd,ges suggest the difference in the 
spirit of the two books. Mr. Sinclair has given 
358 pages of passionful fervid commentary on 
the Negro since emancipation. The over-zealous 
critic might point out many faults in the work. 
It is not well digested, there are some over- 
statements, and much padding in the way of 
poetry and quotations from easily-accessible 
sources. And yet the book is of great value. 
It is alive. It is throbbing. It carries a mes- 
sage, and the soul of the writer is so full that 
the words, facts, periods, and phrases tumble 
out often incoherently with many repetitions 
and a liberal sprinkling of exclamation points. 
The collection of facts and especially quotations, 
the vivid portrayal of recent public opinion 
toward the Negro, and the flat, outspoken ac- 
count of the demands of black men, have seldom 
been better done. One unfamiliar with the great 
American problem would be mystified by the 
book, but a newspaper and periodical reading 
American of to-day will find that it gives him a 
flesh-and-blood point of view. Mr. Sinclair is no 
doubled-tongued apologist, nor is he a historian 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



296 



of philosophic calm bringing back a picture of 
the past. He is speaking of human difficulties 
in which he has lived and moved. He is, as a 
Negro, demanding the things which he wants as 
a man, not by indirection or implication, but by 
plain blimt words. He says of the South : 

" The South was wrong, even if it was united, on the 
slavery question — but public opinion destroyed slavery. 

" The South was wrong, even if it was united, in 
making war on the republic — but public opinion saved 
the republic. 

" The South was wrong, even if it was united, in its 
threats to shoot colored soldiers and their white officers 
when captured — but public opinion kept the colored 
soldiers on the firing line and protected them. 

" The South was wrong, even if it was united, in 
passing the Black Code — but public opinion destroyed 
the Black Code.| «fMftlSH^iilflBS|BJBi9 <3 

" The South was wrong, even if it was united, in its 
hostility to the great measures of reconstruction — but 
public opinion achieved the reconstruction it wanted. 

" The South IS wrong, even if it is united, in the 
extreme im-American and unholy attitude assumed 
to-day — and public opinion will be found equal to the 
task of dealing with it." 

And he demands three things as remedies : 1, 
Presidents without caste prejudices ; 2, na- 
tional aid for Negro education ; 3, reduction for 
Southern representation. 

Here we have, then, in these two books, the 
voice of the calmer retrospective North, charit- 
able toward error, suspicious of fervor, believing 
in American freedom and democracy ; and the 
voice of the Negro, eloquent with his wrongs, 
insistent for his rights, with the shadow of 
pain across his words. Which is Truth ? Prob- 

* y O • ^_ £^ BURGHARDT Du BoiS. 



Monarchy or Republic ix Fraxce.* 



In reading the later history of the Third 
Republic, it is difficult to avoid a sense of con- 
fusion. Until 1901, when the great problem of 
Church and State seemed to concentrate atten- 
tion, there was a distracting succession of short 
ministries with constant revision of policy. Of 
course, upon a less superficial view confusion 
disappears and the lines of development become 
clear. But in the earlier and more heroic period, 
when the Republic was battling for life, the 
issues are plainer and events fall into natural 
groups without the aid of serious reflection. This 
has given both of M. Hanotaux's volumes unity 
of theme. In the first volume, it was the lib- 

• Ck)NTEMPOKARY Fbance. By Gabriel Hanotaux. Translated 
from the French. Volume n. (1873-1875). With portraits. New 
York: Q. P. Putnam's Sons. 



eration of the territory through the efforts of 
M. Thiers, and, as an epilogue, the overthrow 
of Thiers on the twenty-fourth of May. In the 
present volume (II.), it is the campaign of 1873 
for the restoration of the Bourbon monarchy. 
A little less than a third of the volume is given 
to the story of the royalist intrigue. As soon 
as the tale is concluded and the minor political 
struggle involving the fate of the Broglie cabi- 
net becomes the subject, the interest falls off 
decidedly. This volume also includes several 
chapters on the literary, artistic, and religious 
situation as the country recovered from the effects 
of the war. 

M. Hanotaux is an historian and an Acade- 
mician, as well as an ardent republican of the 
school of Grambetta ; consequently, every fig- 
ure is sketched sympathetically and each phase 
of the absorbing drama is described with an 
objectivity rare even in French historical writ- 
ings, and remarkable when one recalls that not 
aU the actors, nor all the issues, are dead. Only 
in one instance does a sentence seem to contain 
a particle of political venom. This is where the 
author refers to the " senile vanity " of M. Thiers. 
The treatment is not only sympathetic, it is 
fresh, because M. Hanotaux has had access to 
important unpublished material, memoirs, and 
private papers. 

M. Hanotaux has told the story in such a way 
as to make perfectly clear its true dramatic in- 
terest. This comes not merely from the bearing 
of the struggle upon the fate of the Republic, 
although such a stake would give dignity to any 
political conflict. The deeper interest is pro- 
duced by the note of luiiversality in the struggle 
of the actors, — the Comte de Chambord, the 
Comte de Paris, Marshal MacMahon, the Due 
de Broglie, M. de Chesnelong, M. Louis Veuil- 
lot, — to drag France back from the inevitable, 
from what they regarded as the abyss of the re- 
public. They felt sure of success, for the Nat- 
tional Assembly had a monarchist majority, and 
it could use the constituent power, if only princes, 
president, and deputies could reach an under- 
standing upon the significance of the restoration 
of the Comte de Chambord. It was a much 
easier matter to patch up the personal difficulties 
between the younger and the elder branch ; for 
while the Comte de Paris was ready to recognize 
Chambord's legitimate claims to the throne, 
neither he nor his followers were willing to repu- 
diate 1830 and return to 1814. All the formu- 
las which they were able to devise rested upon 
the basis of popular sovereignty. But the Comte 
de Chambord would come back with his " prin- 



296 



THE DIAL 



[May 1, 



ciple " and its symbol, the white flag, or he would 
not return at all. Otherwise he felt he would 
simply be " a stout man with a limp," 

The climax was reached when the Comte de 
Chambord came secretly to Versailles, after his 
letter of October 27 had ruined all chance of a 
restoration by vote of the National Assembly. 
He loved France and the army, and honestly 
believed that if he presented himself to the army 
the soldiers would see in him their chief and would 
accept the white flag as the emblem of French 
military glory, consecrated by the remembrance 
of the " deeds that God had wrought through 
his beloved Franks." The politicians and their 
compromising formulas might be waved aside. 
There was one obstacle : the support of the Mar- 
shal-President was necessary. But, monarchist 
though he was, MacMahon could not ignore the 
Assembly which had clothed him with authority. 
This looked to him like an intrigue which would 
tarnish his honor. There was nothing left the 
prince but to go away as secretly as he had come. 
On his journey to Versailles he had passed 
through Paris and had been driven by the black- 
ened walls of the TuUeries. On this journey 
also he passed through Paris, and drove to the 
Invalides, the palace sacred to the glories of the 
army. From the depths of his carriage he gazed 
at a military funeral as it marched out of the 
gates. " This funeral ceremony was his last con- 
tact with the army, with Paris, with France. He 
went away and returned to the exile which he 
was never to leave again." 

In M. Hanotaux's chapter on the literature of 
the period, he interprets suggestively the effect 
of the debacle upon the tendencies of French 
thought, particularly among writers whose work 
liad matured before the disasters of 1870 and of 
1871. To the historical student,the most interest- 
ing passage describes the spiritual mood in which 
Taine undertook his work on the " Origins of 
Contemporary France." In reaching his con- 
clusion, M. Hanotaux has used the unpublished 
letters of Taine. He says that if Taine " had 
written later, he would have written another 
book. Further from the events of 1871, the im- 
pression would have been less strong, the work 
more just perhaps, but less beautiful. What is 
this book, on the whole, save the supreme ex- 
pression of patriotic anxiety, the poem of sorrow 
and doubt? ... If posterity wishes to know 
the condition of the soul of France on the morrow 
of the war, it will open this book, which, in its 
despairing pages, prolongs and repeats the plaint 
of the vanquished." 

The pages on the religious consciousness of 



the French twenty-five years ago appear almost 
an attempt to outline a lay religion for men 
" Wandering between two worlds, one dead, 
The other powerless to be born." 

At times one wonders if this be not a personal 
confession. Not only in this chapter on " The 
Moral Crisis," but elsewhere, the book is more 
than a history, it is the reflection of attitudes of 
mind of a contemporary Frenchman of a fine 
type. This enhances the value of a book which 
aims to interpret for us Contemporary France. 
Henry E. Bourne. 



partisans and historians rx social. 
Science.* 



Sectarianism has played an important role in the 
profession of medicine and in theology, and social 
science has no right to hope for exemption. As 
books on themes of gi'oup interests poiu- from the 
press and give expression to inward need or public 
demand, we come to expect a partisan note in each 
fresh claim upon public attention. The judge on the 
bench must listen to opposing views and hold the 
scales even, that justice may be done ; and this play 
of antagonistic interests is the rough method by 
which all aspects of truth are brought to light. Not 
in a censorious spirit, therefore, do we attempt to 
characterize the rather vigorous discussions named in 
connection with this article. Characterization is not 
entire condemnation, and criticism is not a synonym 
of mere fault-finding. 

We begin with the book by Mr. H. G. Wells, " A 
Modern Utopia," because one cannot be quite certain 
where it belongs. The oriental dervish whirls himself 
about on his axis until he becomes dizzy with inspi- 
ration and finds himself talking aloud in a supernat- 
ural world. The introduction to Utopias is through 
a black-art of transportation; but once beyond the 
borders of the knowable, the new world still retains 
familiar aspects. Indeed, in this modern refuge of 
optimism the phi-ases of evolutionary science intrude 
with insistence. The ancient ideal cities of the sun 
were good enough to stand still and small enough to 

•A Modern Utopia. By H. G. Wells. New York: Charles 
Scribner's Sons. 

The Menace of Privilege. By Henry George, Jr. New 
York: The Macraillan Co. 

War of the Classes. By Jack London. New York : The 
Macmillan Co. 

The Commonwealth of Man. By Robert Alton Holland. 
New York : G. P. Putnam's Sons. 

Social Theories and Social Facts. By William Morton 
Grinnell. New York : G. P. Putnam's Sons. 

The Progress op the German Working Classes in the 
Last Quarter of a Century. By W. J. Ashley. New York: 
Longmans, Green, & Co. 

Efficiency and Relief. A Programme of Social Work. By 
Edward T. Devine. New York: The Macmillan Co. 

Agricultural Economics. By H.C. Taylor. New York: The 
Macmillan Co. 

The Bitter Cry of the Children. By John Spargo. New 
York : The Macmillan Co. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



297 



find room in a happy valley. Nothing smaller than 
a whole planet will answer for the larger conception 
of the world-state. There are the usual stage prop- 
erties of socialistic speculation, advanced notions of 
stirpiculture, rewards for legitimate and well-bred 
children, travel two hundred miles over a noiseless 
track while you glance out of the window, and a love- 
story in broken narrative of ejaculations. There are, 
apparently, people who like their economics and pol- 
itics in dilution, with a flavor of classic salt : and Mr. 
WeUs will afPord them enjojinent. Those who ask 
for facts in support of hypotheses will grow wear>' of 
following the digressions. But why quarrel with one 
who brings us up to problems of the ages in sparkling 
dialogue? 

Whatever one may think of the economic reasoning 
and conclusions of Mr. George, we must confess ad- 
miration for his loyalty to the life-aims of his famous 
father. The root of all evil, we are still told, is monop- 
oly of land, for from that spring all the wrongs of 
privilege. The story is depressing and harrowing : 
merchant princes or their heirs revel in luxury and 
shameless excess ; the workingmen are becoming 
poorer, feebler, more hopeless ; the trade-unions, or- 
ganized to resist privilege but ignoring the single-tax, 
run into absui-d blunders : the masters of privilege per- 
vert law, rule by injunctions and bayonets, purchase 
bosses, resist reforms in the Senate, corrupt politics, 
enslave the editors, stifle the voice of truth in uni- 
versities, tune the pulpit, excite wars of conquest, 
and. generally, hurry the Republic downward toward 
the fate of Greece and Rome. There is truth in the 
lugubrious indictment, as there is a dark side to all 
life. But it is not the whole truth, and it would 
not be difficult to exhibit evidence that, bad as some 
parts of life are, we are gaining ground. Education 
has not altogether failed : courts are not the sinks of* 
injustice here described. Socialists would say that 
Mr. George does not go more than half-way to the 
goal : if landed property ought to be confiscated, why 
not "expropriate" all capital? So we come back 
to the controversy waged years ago over *• Progress 
and Poverty." The arg^ument is the same, only the 
illustrations are different. 

Mr. Jack London, author of " The Sea Wolf " and 
" The Call of the Wild," ventures into the field of 
socialistic theorj' in his "War of the Classes," and 
his style betrays the hunter's eagerness and thirst for 
blood. He not only explains, but also incites, the 
" war " of which he treats. Here ag^in there are 
valuable suggestions carried up from contact with 
the under-world ; explanations of opposition to mili- 
tia among wage-workers, and the rapidly growing 
movement toward political action. The economic 
reasoning, however, is not clear, and there is little 
constructive thinking. The chief value of the book 
lies in its power to paint in vivid colors the senti- 
ments which are gathering force in cities, and which 
it were folly to ignore or minimize. 

It is a curious experience to turn from Mr. 
London's passionate plea for Socialism to the protest 



just as passionate against collectivism in the Rev. Mr. 
Holland's "The Commonwealth of Man." This 
clerical advocate of capitalism and wars of conquest 
bums with the same fire which blazes in the rhetoric 
of the iconoclast. One can almost see them take each 
other by the throat. How conciliatory to the wage- 
earner must this sentence appear : " Why is not the 
workingman in Church? . . . The banker is there, 
the merchant, the manufacturer, the lawj'er, the 
doctor, the teacher, — every class but the labor class. 
Can the Church be Christ's which wins every 
class that believes in soul, but cannot win the one 
class that believes in body ? " One of these writers 
— the optimistic preacher — gives his energy to 
paint the bright side of the present world ; the other 
denounces all present arrangements and offers a 
paradise in a socialistic future. The task of the 
reader must be to sift out wheat by means of these 
whirlwinds, and add some considerations which both 
duellists were too excited to notice. 

After the warmth of Single-tax and the fever of 
Socialism comes the chill wind of Individualism in 
Mr. GrinneU's " Social Theories and Social Facts "; 
and here statistics are arrayed to make at least a 
show of proof. We are told that railroad com- 
panies may safely be left to a policy of undisturbed 
freedom, and that captains of industry and orgjan- 
izers of monopoly wiU tenderly care for the common 
good ; but that trade-unions. Socialists, advocates of 
municipal ownership, Interstate Commerce CoDMnis- 
sions and collectivism in general, are all " contrary 
to natvu-e." It is vaguely hinted that rich men may 
occasionally be guilty of peccadilloes, but that real 
crimes must mostly be laid at the door of operatives, 
especially when they unite their efforts to better their 
lot. " The poor in a loomp is bad," especially when 
they attempt collective bargaining. 

An example of judicial and balanced argument 
is given by Professor Ashley, who attempts to clear 
the air in a fiscal controversy in England, and is 
compelled to investigate the question whether the 
German workmen, under a regime where the State 
recognizes a moral duty to its citizens, are as badly off 
as they are represented to be in England. Opponents 
of a protective tariff on imports in Great Britain 
have been accustomed to paint the misery of German 
workingmen in dark tints, because it belongs to their 
argument to trace poverty to such a policy. Inci- 
dentally, the historian of industry has rendered a 
service to the discussion of workingmen's insurance 
which of late has become interesting to American 
capitalfsts and wage-workers. Partisans of private 
corporations engaged in the insurance business have 
gone out of their way to tell us that obligator}- insur- 
ance in Germany has lowered wages and enslaved the 
employes. With the touch of a master. Professor 
Ashley shows beyond question that the years during 
which insurance has become national in extent have 
been most profitable for both capital and labor. 
During precisely these years when the nation took 
the best care of its producers, it has marched to the 



298 



THE DIAL 



[May 1, 



first rank among the manufacturers and traders of 
the world ; its soil is largely owned by small proprie- 
tors, who are prospering ; higher wages are earned 
in shorter hours and with increased output ; deposits 
in savings banks are larger than formerly ; coopera- 
tive trading is popular ; more and better food is con- 
sumed ; the use of distilled liquor has diminished ; 
the death-rate falls ; suicide is less frequent ; emi- 
gration has dwindled ; there are fewer paupers in 
a larger population; the relation of employers to 
employees has become less antagonistic. 

A competent representative of the Charity Organi- 
zation Society movement, with broad university 
training in economic science, offers in outline the 
essential aspects of a new discipline which he calls 
" Social Economy." The problem treated is that of 
efficiency, — the ability to attain and hold a place in 
a productive and normal society. Since efficiency 
is the result of all the cooperating agencies which 
affect health, income, and education, the knowledge 
required to promote efficiency must be assembled 
from all the sciences that deal with hygiene, sanita- 
tion, economic activity, and culture. The specific 
point at which the author natiirally enters this field 
is that of relief to social debtors ; and his illustra- 
tions are drawn from the constructive efforts of one 
of the most powerful and influential philanthropic 
agencies in the world. The little book is packed 
with ideas, and is larger than it looks. 

" Agricultural Economics," by Mr. H. C. Taylor, 
is a clear and instructive discussion of that large 
branch of special and practical economics which so 
vitally concerns the principal industry of this coun- 
try. It marks a departure from the conventional 
English and American treatises on political econ- 
omy, and follows more nearly the German method 
which has produced such immense results. This 
volume is scientific in its substance, although for the 
most part popular in style. It deals with the factors 
of agricultural production, the organization of the 
farm, the forces which determine prices, the distri- 
bution of wealth, values of farm property, means of 
acquiring land, tenancy, and landownership. 

Of all this group of books, that of Mr. Spargo, 
" The Bitter Cry of the Children," makes most direct 
and cogent appeal to the home feeling, the national 
interest, and the social conscience. We must leave 
to the medical men a final judgment of the asser- 
tion that all infants start life as equals, and we may 
reserve our own estimate of the number of under-fed 
children in this country. But there are two facts 
made as clear as sunlight in this searching volume : 
in our cities a vast number of innocent children are 
suffering and dying, or growing up to weakness and 
inefficiency ; and, short of radical measures, we have 
it in our power to prevent most of this social degra- 
dation. Testimonies of physicians and charity vis- 
itors, statistics, economic reasoning, pathetic stories 
and pictures are employed in turn to awaken the 
apathetic and rally the just and humane to a com- 
mon standard. The author is a Socialist, and that 



may prejudice certain minds against his message; 
but it were better to listen, because the very life of the 
nation is involved, and the measures recommended 
might have been offered, as they have actually been 
invented and tested, by persons who were never 
suspected of extreme political views. 

Chables Richmond Henderson. 



Briefs ox New Books. 



Dr. Maurice Francis Egan's "The 
ThakelpfarS,!. Ghost in Hamlet, and Other Essays " 

(A. C. McClurg & Co. ) is a book of 
real vitality. It contains no very novel views, and 
its style is not atti'active ; but there is life in it, and 
a personality behind it that almost disarms criticism. 
We could wish to be reminded less often that the 
author is a Roman Catholic. Distinctions of that 
sort seem to us not wholly appropriate to literary 
discussion, for literature shows its celestial affinities 
partly by being " no respecter of persons." Dr. Egan's 
sobriety of judgment is, however, in no way injured 
by his religious convictions. Of a book by the late 
Richard Simpson, on "The Religion of Shake- 
speare," he observes that "to persons who have 
already made up their minds that all the greatest 
actors in the world's history were of the one Faith, 
either by anticipation or participation, it will be 
delightfully edifying and perennially refreshing." 
He quotes the following comment, by Father Bowden 
of the Oratory, on the passage in Cymbeline, " For 
notes of sorrow out of tune are worse than priests 
and fanes that lie " : " Read ironically, the text 
means, ' You talk of the lying priests and their lying 
temples ; I hold your vile psalm-singing to be ten 
times worse ' " ; upon which he remarks, not too 
severely, that such interpretation implies " chronic 
Philistinism." "If Shakespeare," he adds, "wrote 
that very human and exaggerated and sweet speech 
of Guiderius to be ' read ironically,' he deserves to 
be deprived of the honor of having written it." Dr. 
Egan calls these papers " essays in comparative 
literature " ; and one of them, not the most interest- 
ing, is devoted to "The Comparative Method in 
Literature." The volume gives a pleasant impres- 
sion of the author's wide reading. German, French, 
and Spanish literature is laid under contribution, 
and one of the papers, "The Greatest of Shake- 
speare's Contemporaries," is an interesting sketch of 
Calderon. The essay on " Imitators of Shakespeare " 
is devoted to a comparison of Aubrey Thomas 
De Vere's play, " Saint Thomas of Canterbury," 
with Tennyson's " Becket," greatly to the disadvan- 
tage of the latter. " He had a noble figure and a 
sublime time," says Dr. Egan, " and he belittled them 
both, because he would not understand them, or 
because he was desirous of the applause of the fre- 
quenters of theatres." The titular essay of the vol- 
ume, though interesting, is unsatisfactory as an 
interpretation of Hamlet's character. " He is pas- 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



299 



sion's slave ; passion has made him tardy ; ... he 
has killed, and he wills to kill ; he is not the Prince 
seeking justice for a crime against the nation, but a 
mere individual not even justifjnng the means by the 
end. . . . Doubting, he coupled hell with heaven 
and earth, and so, Uke his nobler father, he died un- 
satisfied." This is to lay undue stress upon the direc- 
tion of the Ghost, " Taint not thy mind." Besides 
the essays already mentioned, there are papers on 
•• Some Pedagogical Uses of Shakespeare," •• L}Tism 
in Shakespeare's Comedies." "The Puzzle of Ham- 
let." ''A Definition of Literature," and "The Ebb 
and Flow of Romance." It is painful to have to 
remark so often upon the stjde of professional stu- 
dents of literature. Can it be that there is no neces- 
sary effect of such study upon one's own habits of 
expression? Is Ovid's Abeunt stud la in mores, then, 
untrue i Dr. Egan's style, as we have intimated, is 
not quite worthy of his theme. Nor is it a matter 
of slight unportance that a professor of literature 
should misuse the word '"connot*" (p. 147), and 
misquote Richard III. (p. 272). Noblesse oblige, 

A^^s^^^ Mr. James Schouler, author of a 

American ^ ■ 

manner* and well-known "History of the United 
euttowu «n '7S. States," has enlarged a series of lec- 
tures on American History into a volume of three 
hundred pages bearing the title " Americans of 
1776 " (Dodd, Mead & Co.). Although concise and 
euphonistic, the title is not sufficiently explanatory. 
Instead of a fidsome panegyric, the book is an excel- 
lent study of the economic, social, and intellectual 
life of the American colonists about the time of the 
American Revolution. What Weeden and Lodge 
have done for the colonies during theu" entire exist- 
ence as such, this investigation does for them at a 
given period. Among the chapter titles may be 
found: '"Freemen and Bondmen," "Dress and Diet," 
"Amusements," "Houses and Homes," ''Fine Arts," 
" The Press," and •' Education." Other writers 
have in recent times attempted with varWng success 
to give us glimpses of the enviromnent of our fore- 

fathei's theu* homes, their furniture, and their 

customs : but no one has approached the task with 
the scholarly experience of Mr. Schouler. The result 
shows that certain difficulties exist in an attempt of 
this kind, even for the trained specialist. In the 
first place, no chain of events, such as is found in 
political history, gives continuity to the recital ; bio- 
graphy is wanting to give personality to the dry 
facts ; in the end. the reader has a kaleidoscopic im- 
pression rather than a perspective. Taking into due 
consideration these difficulties, the present volume 
cannot fail to satisfy. It is a storehouse of informa- 
tion, collected, as the author says, from newspapers, 
magazines, pamphlets, letters, and diaries of the pe- 
riod under considei'ation. The paucity of references 
at first thought seems imfortimate; but reflection 
shows the impossibility of certifying the multitude 
of statements drawn from such diverse sources. The 
index, containing only proper names casually men- 
tioned, is inadequate for a volume devoted to social 



and economic topics, in which men are secondary. 
Residents of New Hampshire, which abolished sla- 
very through a court decision in 1784, will scarcely 
approve the statement that '• Massachusetts, solitary 
and alone of these commonwealths, shook off the 
curse by a determined effort, and deduced in 1783," 
etc. Space is wanting for extracts illustrating Ameri- 
can life when politics were provincial, machinery 
crude, mining and metallurgy almost unknown, pub- 
lic libraries wanting, art undeveloped, and when 
clubs were confined almost wholly to men's eating 
and drinking coteries. Excessive drinking, the au- 
thor tells us, was America's greatest vice imtil far 
down into the nineteenth century, when temperance 
crusades first began. The people were utilitarians 
in their pursuits, displaying little real culture or taste 
in art. Impudent quackery imposed upon the simple 
and credulous of the common people. Repression 
and retribution, and not reformation, were the ob- 
jects of penal laws. Scarcely five years before the 
First Continental Congress assembled in Philadel- 
phia, a ship-load of English girls was brought to 
that city and the girls placed on sale, presumably for 
marriage. Such are a few of the many interesting 
glimpses afforded by this unique volume on the 
Americans of 177fi. 

The problem* of ^- F; A. Woods has made a most in- 
herediiv. studied teresting biological study of "Mental 
inrovauamiiies.^j^^ Moral Heredity in Royalty" 
(Holt), that exhibits an enormous diligence in pur- 
suit of a well-designed plan. The publicity attaching 
to these pedigreed members of the human stock makes 
it possible to trace their life-histories through many 
generations, and to follow the careers of the several 
branches of the family. The same publicity makes 
it possible to gather recoi-ds of the kind of lives they 
led and the kind of chai-acters they possessed. The 
data for such appraisal ai-e abundant for the distin- 
guished king or prince ; but it is often at the cost 
of much ransacking of records that even a sparse 
statement can be foimd in regard to all the mem- 
bers of the family on the paternal and the ma- 
ternal side, who survived to adult life. Dr. Woods 
insists upon a complete genealogy on both sides ; 
for his ultimate comparisons are statistical in na- 
ture, and, to be fair, require as careful an account- 
ing of the obscure as of the prominent, of the weak as 
of the strong. Hence the'scions of the great Houses 
— Hanover and Saxe-Coburg-Gotha, Schwerin and 
Hohenzollern, Orange and Orleans, Montmorency 
and Cond^, Romanoffs and Vasas, Hapsburgs and 
Bourbons — are encompassed in the inquiry, the ulti- 
mate purpose of which is to decide how far heredity 
played the chief part, in contrast with circumstance or 
a resolute will, in the determination of what man- 
ner of men and women they were. Having adopted 
certain inevitably approximate and arbitrary' stand- 
ards of excellence for mental and moral traits, Dr. 
Woods assigns to each individual (on the basis of 
historians' and biographers' estimates ) a rank in the 
scale of ten. In coordinating the data, an extremely 



300 



THE DIAL 



[Mayl, 



Dreams and 
visions from 
" the heiahts." 



strong case is made out for the dominance of heredity 
as the most potent factor in the issue. There are 
exceptions, which the law distinctly provides for ; and 
there are equally unexpected agreements in detail, 
which the law anticipates. The work is thus brought 
into relation with the more general studies of Mr. 
•Galton and Mr. Pearson, who have developed mathe- 
matical formula for the treatment of such data. Side 
by side with the central conclusion that blood makes 
the man, and that the men of high grade are apt to 
have high-gi'ade ancestors and descendants, is the 
equally important conclusion that mental and moral 
traits are themselves correlated, and that the strongest 
mentally are in the same statistical sense the worthiest 
morally. Equally corroborative is the negative evi- 
dence that shows how poor strains of blood, especially 
in the case of nervous defect, continues its vitiating 
potency, — again in support of heredity determinar 
tion. Quite natm-ally, such conclusions must be judi- 
cially applied as well as derived. Dr. Woods rarely 
goes much beyond the statistical warrant of his evi- 
dence, and has at all events presented his case more 
strongly and more judicially, as well as scientific- 
ally, than has any other contributor to this particular 

problem. 

Of the writing of Utopias there will 
probably never be an end — unless 
(terrible thought!) Utopia should 
one day be realized. Nor will there ever be lacking 
readers of these social studies in the guise of fiction. 
Mr. Joaquin Miller's dreamily beautiful and poetic 
little story, "The Building of the City Beautiful," 
issued in attractive form by Mr. Albert Brandt, 
Trenton, N. J., is now added to the number. The 
scene is laid partly in Palestine and Egypt, partly in 
California. The hero is nameless, simply designated 
as " the man "; the heroine is a nobly beautiful Rus- 
sian Jewess, Miriam, sometime secretary to Sir Moses 
Montefiore. The attempt to rear a " city beautiful " 
on the heights overlooking San Francisco results, of 
course, in failure ; for below is the great city with its 
temptations, and man is but mortal after all. Yet 
hear the words of the builder's mother at the close 
of the book : " My son, there is no failure, there can 
be no failure for those who really try. The only failure 
possible in life is the failure to try, and persistently 
try, for the best. The good, the glory, the consola- 
tion of it all is the ennobling effort. Let us bravely 
leave results to Him." To the average novel-reader 
the book will seem but the vague and dreamy lucu- 
bration of a visionary hermit. It certainly takes no 
firm hold on the hard realities that most of us feel 
bound to reckon with. The rose must have its thorn 
(we speak not of the Burbanked rose), the fairest 
face will have its mole or birth-mark, — or, as the old 
Latin punningly puts it, " Ubi uber, ibi tuber." Let 
us not, however, deprecate any such attempts as the 
Californian poet's to ameliorate our condition, even 
though we are well assured that entire success would 
leave us wretched, with nothing further to strive for, 
no more ideals to cherish, no hope of better tilings to 
gild with promise each to-morrow. A pictm-e of the 



author and his venerable mother forms a frontispiece 
to the book, whose autobiographic flavor adds still 
further to its interest. 

Studies and The geologist wanders over a wide 

speculations onn^^^.. lij 

the Earth and field and penetrates many a neglected 
its foundation, path. Occasionally he is persuaded 
to sit by the roadside and expound to laymen some- 
thing of what he has seen. The tales he tells are 
often of marvellous interest; and it is as good for 
the geologist to talk as for the layman to hear, since 
he is thereby forced to submit his conclusions to the 
common-sense review of his fellows. English geolo- 
gists have done rather better in this particular than 
have the Americans. In the book entitled "The 
Age of the Earth, and other Geological Studies" 
(Button), Dr. SoUas, Professor of Geology at 
Oxford, expoimds and speculates entertainingly on 
the age and fig^e of the earth, the formation of 
coral islands, the genesis of flints and of fresh water 
faunas, and gives a very human sketch of a visit to 
the Lipari Isles. The age of the earth has been a 
fruitful topic for discussion since Steno first attempted 
to harmonize his observations in Italy with the ortho- 
dox interpretations of the Mosaic account. Geolo- 
gists in general have argued for some hundred or 
more millions of years. Physicists have attempted 
to beat them down to a beggarly twenty to forty 
millions, — " nearer twenty than forty," according to 
Kelvin. Professor Sollas works out to his satisfac- 
tion a median figure, approximately fifty millions, 
though this impresses one rather as an averaging of 
figm*es than an independent result. The doubts 
emphasized by American investigators regarding the 
physical data upon which Kelvin's estimate is based 
are apparently unknown to Professor Sollas. The 
whole subject would seem for the present to be 
wholly within the field of speculation. Two of the 
best chapters in the book relate to the influence of 
Oxford on the history of geology and to the use of 
fossils in the study of strata. In the former, inter- 
esting side-lights are tlirown upon the development 
of English scientific opinion; and in the latter, 
Huxley's homotaxis conception is very justly criti- 
cised. The objections which Huxley found to believ- 
ing in wide contemporaneity of geologic formations 
are met by arguments based on past climates and an 
elaboration of Heilprin's objections from migrations. 
The very strong argument which may be based 
upon the known physical history of the earth is not 
used. The book closes with a chapter on " Geologies 
and Deluges," in which the difficulties in the way of 
a universal Noachian deluge are considered in con- 
nection with the historical evidence of floods in 
Chaldea and elsewhere. 

r , , Three hundred years ago,at the end of 

Landscape art -r ■,• -n • p ^ ri 

and the modern the Italian Renaissance, for the first 
Dutch artists. ^[j^q j^ the history of art the study of 
Nature for its own sake began and artists came to 
realize that landscapes without any interest connected 
with human life in them were proper subjects of study 
for their own innate beauty. Three great painters in- 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



301 



aug^urated this movement in art — Rubens, Nicolas 
Poussin, and Claude. " Landscape Painting and 
Modem Dutch Artists " (Baker-Taylor) is a concise 
historj' of this branch of painting from the awaken- 
ing of art to the recent French Impressionists and the 
modern revival in Holland. The author, Mr. E. B. 
Greenshields. points out that all through the history 
of landscape art a strong subjective element is found 
in the works of the g^eat artists, each one revealing 
the individual manner in which the painter was af- 
fected by Nature. It was Whistler who propounded 
the theory that there is no such thing as a national 
art, but that aU art is purely personal to the individ- 
uality of the artist. In treating modern Dutch art. 
the present author does not pretend to any finality of 
judgment, but has made note of opinions arrived at 
by one who is fond of their pictures. Biographical 
and critical sketches are furnished of Josef Israels, 
the father of the school, the revered of his country- 
men, the sympathetic portrayer of Holland's peasan- 
try ; of Matthew Maris, the painter of dreams ; of 
William and James Maris ; of Bosboom, Mauve, and 
Weissenbruch. Most people know of the Dutch ar- 
tists in an indefinite way, associating them vaguely 
with picturesque landscapes, odd-looking peasants, 
and mist-enveloped canals. To them, this volume 
will come with all the interest of noveltj'. Mr. Green- 
shields, who has established himself as an authority 
on the artists under discussion, has approached his 
task with ardor, and has assembled his material with 
an eye keen both to the true and the interesting. The 
numerous illustrations are helpful to the text. 

TheerUicUm With the completion of ''The Life 
of life and of Reason," in Professor Santayana's 

humanideau. volume "Reason in Science" (Scrib- 
ner), we may be permitted to repeat the judgment 
expressed in these columns on the earlier volumes, that 
both philosophy and literature have been enriched 
by a work of very remarkable qualities. Indeed, for 
the combination of fertUitj', sanity, and keenness of 
insight in the criticism of life and human ideals, with 
a high degree of literary charm, it would be difficult 
to point to its equal in modern philosophical litera- 
ture. That it represents a final point of view for 
philosophy, is indeed not so evident. One should 
perhaps hesitate to confess to a prejudice, which, 
according to Professor Santay ana. is the certain mark 
of an iijcompetent thinker. But it may be ques- 
tioned whether the time-honored craving which men 
have had, or have thought they had, to know things 
in terms of their so-called '* existence," will so readily 
yield to this proposed reinterpretation of all beliefs 
as formulations of an ideal of life. That such 
beliefs are •• mj-thical," in the sense that they are 
not subject to the sort of verification which is called 
scientific is no doubt true. Doubtless also this false 
substantializing into concretions of existence of what 
are in truth laws or aspects of spiritual experience, 
is a frequent — a verj' frequent — thing in human 
thought ; and the criticism of it is fruitful. But 
that no real place whatever is left for belief about 



existence is, one may still be permitted to think, a 
trifle too thoroughgoing in the light alike of consist- 
ency of theory and of the satisfaction of our concrete 
human interests. For, after all, the real point comes 
back to a question of the fundamental meaning and 
value of life ; and, with all admiration for Professor 
Santayana, it is still possible to feel that he misses 
something vital in the deepest human experience, the 
lack of which is likely now and again to bring the 
reader up with a sharp feeling of protest. But this 
need not interfere with the almost unqualified appre- 
ciation of very much of the author's philosophy of 
life. In the brilliant analysis and interpretation of 
ideals in relation to their natural basis, the work 
offers a contribution of permanent value to philo- 
sophical literature. 

Early voyager, Messrs. Houghton, Mifflin & Co. have 
on the coast of recently published one of those per- 
iVetr England, fg^t volumes that are the joy of the 
bibliophile in paper, print, and combination of the 
two. It is entitled " Sailors' Narratives of Voyages 
along the New England Coast, 1524-1624," and is 
the work of that well-known authority on Colonial 
Historj', ]VIr. George Parker Winship, of the John 
Carter Brown Library. In most beautiful pages of 
text set between rules in the manner in use in the 
age of Elizabeth, he has given us Giovanni da Ver- 
razano, Bartholomew Gosnold, Martin Pring, Samuel 
de Champlain, George Waymouth, George Popham, 
Raleigh Gilbert, Henry Hudson, Samuel Argall, 
John Smith, Thomas Dermer, and Christopher 
Levitt. Introducing each selection is a sketch of the 
traveller and of the causes and purposes of his ad- 
venture. There are also maps from the narrations 
of Smith and Champlain, and beautiful facsimile 
title-pages from the books of Brereton and Rosier, 
containing the voyages of Grosnold, and Waymouth, 
and also from Captain Smith's " Description." Here 
the lover of old voyages and adventures has the 
whole New England section in a delightful form, 
worthy of the famous mariners thus associated 
together. Especially welcome are the somewhat rare 
narratives of Gk>snold, Pring, Waymouth, and Pop- 
ham. Here, too, is good and vigorous English from 
men as sturdy with the pen as yrith the sword or on 
the quarterdeck, — English of the type of King 
James's Version, resonant with fire and life. It is a 
good style to contemplate, in view of the dilutions 
that more recent literature has tolerated ; it is the 
language of men who did things and took no great 
credit for the doing. 

On a December afternoon of 1901, 

CommemorcUion jj-j^ g^ j ^^^ ^ • j ^,f ^j 

of a heroic deed. . , , , ^^^^' • ■, 

beautiful character, while skating with 

a friend on the Ottawa River, came suddenly in the 
twilight upon a wide space of open water, and before 
the danger could be avoided the two found themselves 
submerged in the icy current Henry Albert Harper, 
a young journalist and writer on economic and social 
questions, after vainly attempting a rescue by other 
means, plunged in to assist the drowning. He per- 



302 



THE DIAL 



[May 1, 



ished with Miss Blair, who had nobly endeavored to 
dissuade him from an attempt that meant almost cer- 
tain death, but to whom he could only reply, " What 
else can I do!" The young lady's companion, a 
young man, escaped as by a miracle, else the world 
would have been the poorer for not knowing how 
courageous and self-denying the two victims had 
shown themselves. Harper's oldest and nearest 
friend, Mr. W. L. Mackenzie King, now offers in a 
small volume entitled " The Secret of Heroism " 
(Revell), a tribute to the memory of his brave com- 
rade. It gives in brief an account of the tragic event, 
a history of the Sir Galahad monument erected to 
Harper's memory on Parliament Hill, Ottawa, and 
an outline of Harper's life with extracts from his let- 
ters and journals. It is a book to make the reader 
humbler, braver, pm'er, and, whether for a lifetime 
or but for a day, every way better. 

Fixh ttoriex Good fishermen are proverbially si- 

hv an English lent, at least while engaged in the 
xpoHsman. sport, and their skill is reported to 

be inversely proportional to the magnitude of their 
own accounts of their success. Whatever craft Mr. 
Beavan may display with rod and line at sea or on 
the banks of the Medway, the reader of his volume 
entitled "Fishes I Have Known" (Wessels) is left 
in no doubt as to the effectiveness of his tales of the 
fishes he has caught in British waters, in those of 
the colonies, and of South America. The author 
appears not to have tested his skill in North Ameri- 
can waters. One does not look for strict adherence 
to scientific accm-acy of statement in an account of 
fishing methods and experiences by an enthusiastic 
angler, but this hardly excuses the statement that 
soundings in the Sargasso Sea seldom give more 
than one hundred fathoms ! The book is written 
from the sportsman's point of view, but by one who 
is evidently a nature-lover as well as a good story- 
teller. There are a number of interesting illustrar 
tions. 



Notes. 



"Nature and Health," by Dr. Edward Cui'tis, is a 
popular treatise on the hygiene of the person and the 
home, just published by Messrs. Henry Holt & Co. 

Anthony TroUope's " The Vicar of Bullhampton," in 
two volumes, is added by Messrs. Dodd, Mead & Co. 
to their edition of <' The Manor House Novels." 

Mr. Oliver Leigh has prepared a study of " Edgar 
Allan Poe: The Man, the Master, the Martyr," which 
Mr. Frank M. Morris of Chicago will publish at an 
early date. 

"The Legend of St. Juliana," translated from Cyne- 
wulf and the Acta Sanctorum by Mr. Charles William 
Kennedy, is a publication of the library of Princeton 
University. 

An important study " On Speculation in Relation to 
the World's Prosperity, 1897-1902," by Miss Minnie 
Thorp England, is published in the January, 1906, issue 
of the " University Studies " of the University of 
Nebraska. 



The publishing lights of Mr. G. Bernard Shaw's 
" Plays Pleasant and Unpleasant " have been acquired 
by the Messrs. Brentano, who reissue the two volumes 
in a neat edition in a box. 

" The Language of tlie Northiuubrian Gloss to tlie Gos- 
pel of St. Luke," by Miss Margaret Dutton Kellum, is 
published by Messrs. Henry Holt & Co. in the series of 
" Yale Studies in English." 

" A Premature Socialist," arranged as a comedy fi-om 
" The Altruist," by " Ouida," forms a volume sent us 
by the Broadway Publishing Co. Miss Mary Ives Todd 
is responsible for the dramatic version. 

Messrs. Henry Holt & Co. publish " English Essays," 
selected for college use by Professor Walter C. Bronson. 
The texts range from Bacon to Stevenson, and are pro- 
vided with biogi-aphical and other notes. 

" The Climbers," Mr. Clyde Fitch's well-known play 
in fom- acts, is published in l)ook form by the Macmillau 
Co., thus continuing the series begim recently by the 
similar publication of " The Girl with the Green Eyes." 

" The Elements of Grammar and Composition," by 
Mr. W. F. Webster and Miss Alice Woodworth Cooley, 
is a new volume in the " Webster-Cooley Language 
Series," published by Messrs. Houghton, Mifflin & Co. 

A volume of " Brief Literary Criticisms," by the late 
Richard Holt Hutton, originally contributed to " The 
Spectator, "and now edited by Miss Elizabeth M. Roscoe, 
is a welcome addition to the " Eversley Series " of the 
Macmillan Co. 

From the office of " The Publishers' Circular " we 
have " The English Catalogue of Books for 1905," be- 
ing the sixty-ninth annual issue of this useful giude for 
booksellers and librarians. Authors, titles, and subjects 
are brought within a single alphabet. 

Under the title of " Harper's Young People's Series," 
we have five reprinted volumes : Lewis Carroll's 
" Alice," " Through the I.iOoking Glass," and " ITie 
Huntmg of the Suark," and Miss Lucy C. Ldlie's " False 
Witness " and " Phil and the Baby." 

A volume that is likely to prove of equal interest to 
sociologists and to students of literature is Dr. William 
Clark Gordon's " The Social Ideals of Alfred Tennyson 
as Related to his Time," which the University of Chi- 
cago Press annoiuices for immediate publication. 

Miss Esther Singleton's " Holland, as Seen and De- 
scribed by Famous Writers," is a book of extracts, com- 
piled upon a plan already familiar to Miss Singleton's 
readers, and abimdantly illustrated by photographic 
plates. Messrs. Dodd, Mead & Co. are the publishers. 

The axithorized translation of Senator Antonio Fogaz- 
zai'o's romance entitled " II Santo," wliich has excited 
much interest in Italy, will be published within a few 
weeks by Messrs. G. P. Putnam's Sons. Professor 
William R. Thayer will supply an introduction to the 
American edition. 

" Old Tales from Rome," by Miss Alice Zimmern, is 
a companion volume to the author's " Old Tales from 
Greece," and relates in simple language the immortal 
legends of Virgil, Livj', and Ovid, together with a few 
from miscellaneous sources. Messrs. A. C. McClurg 
& Co. are the American publishers. 

Reprints of " Amaryllis at the Fair " and " After 
London; or. Wild England," by Richard Jefferies, are 
published by Messrs. E. P. Dutton & Co., in an edition 
uniform with other volumes by the same author. These 
wholesome and beautifid books deserve a far wider 
vogue than has yet been accorded them by the public. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



308 



A set of little books called the "Spirit of the Age 
Series " is inaugiirated by Messrs. John W. Luce & Co. 
The first two Toliimes of the series give us an essay- 
study of Wliistler, by Mr. Haldane Macfall, and one of 
Sterenson, by Miss Eve Blantyre Simpson. They are 
pretty little books, and have several illustrations each. 
" Krausz's Practical Automobile Dictionary," a word- 
compilation in English, French, and German, made by 
Mr. Sigmimd Krausz, is published by the Frederick A. 
Stokes Co. Twelve thousand technical terms are in- 
cluded, and we can imagine the motorist in foreign 
parts exceedingly gratefid for the presence of the little 
book in his luggage in time of need. 

" Songs of the University of Chicago," edited by Mr. 
William A. McDermid, is a volume published by Messrs. 
Hinds, Noble & Eldredge. It includes the special songs 
of the institution in question (among them numbers 
from the several comic operas produced of recent years 
by the student body), and in additian many other songs 
which are the common property of all colleges. 

An "Ainu-English-Japanese Dictionary," including 
a grammar of the Ainu language, by Rev. John Batch- 
elor, for twenty-five years an English missionary in Yezo, 
among these aborigines of the Japanese archipelago, has 
been issued in a second edition by Messrs. Kegan Paul, 
Trench & Triibner, of London. The work is of great 
scientific interest, as the Ainu tongue is Aryan in form 
and the basic ethnic stock of the Japanese is Ainu. 

" A Manual of American Literature," by Mr. James 
B. Smiley, is a small book for youthful students, essen- 
tially biographical in treatment, published by the Amer- 
ican Book Co. Other school publications of the same 
house are " Thirty More Famous Stories," retold by 
Mr. James Baldwin ; " Waste Not, Want Not Stories," 
retold by Mr. Clifton Johnson ; and a text-book of 
"Composition-Rhetoric," by Mr. Stratton D. Brooks 
and IVIiss Marietta Hubbard. 

A series of " Language Readers," six in nimiber, is 
published by the Macnullan Co. They are edited by 
Professors Franklin T. Baker and George R. Carpenter, 
with the assistance of Miss Jennie F. Owens. Their 
contents are carefidly graded, and the books are sup- 
plied Nvith pedagogical apparatus in generous quantity. 
Schools which still cling to the " reader " habit will find 
thLs series acceptable, for it is, with the possible excep- 
tion of the " Heart of Oak " books, as good as any other 
now on the market. 

Arrangements for the publication of " The Cambridge 
Medieval History " have now been made by the Syndics 
of the University Press. The first voliune will be pub- 
lished soon after the appearance of the last volume of 
" The Cambridge Modem History," with which it will be 
generally uniform, and the work will be completed in 
eight volumes. " The Cambridge Medieval Historj- " 
has been planned by Professor J. B. Bury, and will be 
edited bv Professor H. M. Gwatkin, Miss M. Bateson, 
and Mr. G. T. Lapsley. 

Two works of unusual artistic and biographic import- 
ance have been secured for Fall publication in this coun- 
try by the Macmillan Co. The first is the authorized 
biography of Walter Crane, entitled « Fifty Years of an 
Artist's Life"; a niunber of interesting works by Mr. 
Crane never before reproduced will be contained in the 
volume. The second of these books is « The Life, Let- 
ters, and Art of Lord Leighton," prepared by ]VIrs. 
Russell Barrington, to be issued in two volimies, with 
one himdred illustratious in color, photogravure, and 
lialf-tone. 



Topics is JjTSJuhsg Periodicals. 

Jf gy. 190 6. 

Actress, An. —On Guard. Clara Morris MeClure 

Agricultural Cooperation. Annie E. S. Beard . . . World To-day 
American Aristocracy. Scions of. H. D. Richardson. Xo. A mer. 

Architectural Treatment of a Small Garden Century 

Athletic Situation, The. W. T. Reid. Jr World To-day 

Baedeker in the Making, James F. Moirbead Atlantic 

Baer, George F. Frederic W. Unger lUv. of Revt. 

Battle. Man's Feeling in. S. H. Byers Harper's Mag. 

Bianca. Angelo Dall 'Oca. Alfredo Melani SttuUo 

Book Illumination, Art of. Edith A. Ibbs Studio 

" Briartown " Nature Sketches. Harold S. Deming Harper 

California's New Inland Sea. F. G. Martin Applelon 

Camping with President Roosevelt. John Burroughs, .^(^an/ic 
Christ in Art, Modernizing of. John P. Lenox. . . World To-day 

Colombia, New Era in. Francis P. Savinien Rev. of Revt. 

Color Prints, Some More. Russell Stoigis Scribner 

Composition. .\ct of. Wilbur L. Cross Atlantie 

Congo Museum. The. Frederick Starr World To-day 

Consular Service and Congress. J. SIoatFaaaett. .Rev. of Rtvt. 

Conventions of 1906 Rev. of Revt. 

Com Gospel Train. A. B. P. Lyie, Jr World'tWork 

Cornish, Gardens of. Frances Duncan Century 

Coryate. Thomas, — Primitive " Tripper." H. V. Abbott Atlantic 

Desert, Mastery of the. Frank W. Blackmar J\'o. A merican 

Differentials. Vital Question of. J. W. Midgley. .i?«r. of Revt. 

Diseased Meat. Selling of World't Work 

Effeminiration. Our National. J. Conger-Kaneko World's Work 

Experience. Meredith Nicholson Reader 

Farm Mortgage of To-Day. Charles M. Harger . . . Rev. of Revt. 

Fittest. Survival of the. Todor Jenks Appleton 

Flower Painting. Modem. T. Martin Wood Studio 

" Forty Acres and a Mule." Walter L. Flouinir. .^'o. American 

Froude. Goldwin Smith Atlantic 

Garden, An Ancient. Helen E. Smith Century 

Gard^i, The Terraced. Susan S. Wainwrigbt AtUmtic 

Glass Mosaic. W. H. Thomas Studio 

Government Meat Inspection. T. H. McKee World't Work 

GroU, Albert L.. Landscape Painter Studio 

Holidays and History. William B. Thayer Atlantic 

Houston.General Sam. and Secession. C. A. Culberson. . Scribner 

Human Plant, Training of the. Luther Burbank Century 

Human Race. — Is it Mortal ? C. W. Saleeby Harper's Mao- 

Indian. Failure of Education for. F. E. Leupp Appleton 

Indian Types of the Southwest. Vanishing. E.S.Curtis Scribner 

Industrial Transition of the V. S. C. M. Harvey Appleton 

Insurance. — Shall we Still Buy » Elliott Flower World To-day 

International Aricultural Institute. The Xo. A merican 

Labrador, Explorations in. Mina B. Hubbard, .//a »•/>«•'« Mag 

Libel, Law of. Richard W. Child Atlantic 

Life Insurance and Speculation. C. J. Bullock Atlantie 

Life Insurance Siut)1us, The. B. J. Hendrick McClure 

Lincoln the Lawyer — conclusion. Frederick T. Hill . . . Century 

Lucca. The Baths of. Neith Boyce Scribner 

Man and the Actor. Richard Mansfield Atlantie 

Marsh, Frederic Dana, Painter. Arthur Hoebo' Studio 

Heat Inspection. Dr. W. K. Jaques World't Work 

Mexico, A Return to. Thomas A. Janvier Harper't Mag. 

Milton. George E. Woodberry McClure 

Mind. Feeding the. Lewis Carroll Harper't Mag. 

Mississippi. Completing the. Aubrey Fullerton. . World To-day 

Monte Carlo, The Ironic. Ward Muir Appleton 

Morocco Conference, The, Ion Perdicaris Appleton 

Moros, Nature of the. Lloyd Buchanan World To-day 

Mount Vernon in Washington's Time Century 

Mount Vernon. Old Garden at. Francis E. Leupp Century 

Municipal Ownership. G. 8. Brown No. A merican 

Municipal Ownership in Chicago Rev. of Revt. 

National Integrity. Albert J. Beveridge Reader 

New England's Deep-Sea Fishing Interests Rev. of Revt. 

New York Post Office. The. Louis E. Van Norman Rev. of Revt. 
New York Revisited — conclusion. Henry James Harper's Mag. 

New York to Paris by Rail. H. Rosenthal Rev. of Revt. 

Normandy. A Comer in. Mary K. Waddington Scribner 

Novel of Manners, 1790-1830. Will D. Howe Reader 

Packingtown, Unhealthfulness of World't Work 

Panama Canal. Truth about. H. C. Rowland Appleton 

Pan-American Railway. Business Side of. H. G. Davis Xo. Amer. 

Poetry, Some Recent. Louise C. WUlcox Xo. American 

Quarantine, Modem. Alvah H. Doty Appleton 

Race Problem, Africa's Reflex Light on. C. F. Adams. . Century 
Railway Rates and Court Review. C. A. Prouty . . . Rev of Revs. 

Railways of Africa. Lieut.-Col. Sir Percy Girouard Scribner 

Railways. World's Highest. Eugene Parsons World To-day 

Roche. Alexander, R.S~A., .\rt of. Haldane MacFall Studio 



304 



THE DIAL 



[May 1, 



Royal School of Embroideries in Athens. Anna B. Dodd. . Cent. 

Russian Editor and Police. Ernest Poole World T(Mlav 

Russian Peasant Industries. Aymer Vallance Studio 

St. Louis after the Fair. Rolla Wells World To-day 

Sailor of Fortune, A. Robert W. Neal World To-day 

San Francisco Catastrophe, The Bev. of Revs. 

School Reports, Demand for Better. W. H. Allen Rev. of Revs. 
Senate, Truth about the. C. Arthur Williams. . . World To-day 
Shakespearean Literature, Some Recent. W. A. Neilson Atlantic 

Sicily, the Garden of the Sun — II. William Sharp Century 

Southern Life before the War. " Frank Clayton" Atlantic 

Spanish Treaty Claims. Hannis Taylor No. American 

Speaker of the House, — Has he too Much Power ? World To-day 

Traction Merger, New York's Great World's Work 

Trapper, Real Character of. W. H. Wright World's Work 

Turkey, Issues between U. S. and. " Americus " No. American 

Washington, The City of. Henry James No. American 

Wells, Rolla, Mayor of St. Louis World To-day 

West Point and Annapolis, Code at Appleton 

Whales, Capture of. Clifford W. Ashley Harper's May. 

Where to Plant What. George W. Cable Century 

Work Horse Parades. Paul P. Foster World To-day 

Young Man and his Money, The World's Work 



liisT OF New Books. 



[The following list, containing 124 titles, includes books 
received by The Dial since its last issue.^ 

BIOGBAFHT AND BEMINISCENCES. 

Joseph Jefferson : Reminiscences of a Fellow Player. By 
Francis Wilson. lUus. in photogi'avure, etc., 8vo, gilt top, 
pp. 354. Charles Scribner's Sons. $2. net. 

Paul Jones, Founder of the American Navy : A History. 
By Augustus C. Buell. Commemoration edition ; with a sup- 
plementary Chapter by General Horace Porter, LL.D. In 
2 vols., with portrait, 12mo, gilt tops, uncut. Charles Scrib- 
ner's Sons. $3. 

In the Days of Scott. By Tudor Jenks. With portrait, 16mo 
pp. 279. " Lives of Great Writers." A. S. Barnes & Co. $1. net. 

The Life Stories of Undistinguished Americans, as Told 
by Themselves. Edited by Hamilton Holt ; with Introduction 
by Edwin E. Slosson. 12mo, pp. 299. James Pott & Co. $1.50. 

Sobert Louis Stevenson. By G. K. Chesterton and W. 
Robertson NicoU. With portrait, 12mo, gilt top, pp. 49. 
James Pott & Co. 50 cts. 

HISTORY. 

The Development of the European Nations, 1870-1900 
By J. Holland Rose, Litt.D. Vol. II., with maps, large 8vo 
gilt top, pp. 351. G. P. Putnam's Sons. |2.50 net. 

A History of the Reformation. By Thomas M. Lindsay , 
M..K. Vol. I., The Reformation in Germany from its Be- 
ginning to the Religious Peace of Augsburg. 8vo, pp. 528. 
"International Theological Library." Charles Scribner's 
Sons. $2.50 net. 

The Glory Seekers : The Romance of Would-Be Founders 
of Empire in the Early Days of the Great Southwest. By 
William Horace Brown. Illus., 12mo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 337. 
A. C. McClurg & Co. $1.50 net. 

Reconstruction In South Carolina, 1865-1877. By John S. 
Reynolds. With portrait, large 8vo, pp. 522. Columbia, S. C. : 
The State Co. $2. net. 

The Reformation. By George Park Fisher, D.D. New revised 
edition ; 8vo, pp. 525. Charles Scribner's Sons. $2.50 net. 

The Story of the Constitution of the United States. 
By Rossiter Johnson. 12mo, pp. 284. New York: William 
Ritchie. $1. net. 

GENERAL LITERATURE. 
Coincidences, Bacon and Shakespeare. By Edwin Reed, 

A.M. With portrait, large 8vo, uncut, pp. 146. Boston: 

Coburn Publishing Co. $1.75 net. 
In Praise of Books : An Encheiridion for the Booklover. By 

H. Swan. 32mo, pp. 118. " Routledge's Miniature Reference 

Library." E. P. Dutton & Co. Leather, 50 cts. 
Women and Things. Illus., 8vo, pp. 307. " Mark Twain's 

Library of Humor.' Harper & Brothers. $1.50. 
Wayside Talks. By Charles Wagner ; trans, from the French 

by Gertrude Hall. 16mo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 234. McClure, 

Phillips & Co. $1. net. 



NEW EDITIONS OF STANDARD LITERATURE. 
Tragedies of Algremon Charles Swinburne. Collected 

library edition ; in 5 vols., 8vo, gilt tops. Harper & Brothers. 

$10. net. 
The Vicar of Bullhampton. By Anthony Trollope. In 2 vols., 

with frontispiece, 16mo, gilt tops. " Manor House Novels." 

Dodd, Mead & Co. $2.50. 
After London ; or. Wild England. By Richard Jefferies. 8vo, 

pp. 311. E. P. Dutton & Co. $1.50. 
Les Classiques Francais. New vols. : George Sand's La Mare 

au Diable, with preface by Louis Comiquet ; Sainte-Beuve's 

Profils Anglais, with preface by d'Andr6 Turquet. Each with 

photogravure portrait, 18mo, gilt top. Q. P. Putnam's Sons. 

Per vol., leather, $1. net. 
The Small House at AUington. By Anthony Trollope; 

with Introduction by Algar Thorold. In 2 vols.. 24mo, gilt 

tops. " Pocket Library." John Lane Co. $1.50 net. 
The Song of Songrs. Arranged in Seven Scenes by Francis 

Coutts; illus. by Henry Ospovat. 24mo. gilt top, uncut, 

pp. 65. " Flowers of Parnassus." John Lane Co. 50 cts. net. 

POETRY AND THE DRAMA. 
Plays and Lyrics. By Cale Young Rice. Large 8vo, gilt top, 

uncut, pp. 317. McClure, Phillips & Co. 
Augustine the Man. By Amelie Rives (Princess Troubetzkoy). 

With photogravure portrait, 12mo, gilt top, pp. 83. John 

Lane Co. 
Love's Testament : A Sonnet Sequence. By G. Constant 

Lounsbery. 12mo, gilt top, pp. 135. John Lane Co. 
The Cloud Kingdom. By I. Henry Wallis ; illus. by Charles 

Robinson. 12mo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 174. John Lane Co. 
Into the Light, and Other Verse. By Edward Robeson 

Taylor. 12mo, uncut, pp. 156. San Francisco : Stanley-Taylor 

Co. $1.25 net. 
Mystery of the West. By Henry Nehemiah Dodge. 12mo, 

gilt top, pp. 62. Gorham Press. $1.25. 
Rub^yit of Hope. By A. A. B. Cavaness. 12mo, gilt top. pp. 35. 

Jennings & Graham. $1. net. 
The Dying Musician. By Mary Elizabeth Powell. 12mo, gilt 

top, pp. 96. Gormam Press. $1.50. 
Over the Bridge, and Other Poems. By Ella M. Truesdell. 

12mo, pp. 89. Gorham Press. $1.25. 

FICTION. 

" If Youth but Knew ! " By Agnes and Egerton Castle. 
Illus., 12mo, pp. 421. Macmillan Co. $1.50. 

The Scholar's Daugrhter. By Beatrice Harraden. With fron- 
tispiece, 12mo, pp. 259. Dodd, Mead & Co. $1.50. 

My Sword for Lafayette. By Max Pemberton. Illus., 12mo, 
pp. 303. Dodd, Mead & Co. $1.50. 

Nicanor, Teller of Tales : A Story of Roman Britain. By 

C. Bryson Taylor. Illus. in color, 8vo, uncut, pp. 422. A. C. 
McClurg & Co. $1.50. 

A Diplomatic Adventure. By S. Weir Mitchell. With fron- 
tispiece, 16mo, pp. 166. Century Co. $1. 

Hauntings : Fantastic Stories. By Vernon Lee. 12mo, gilt 
top, uncut, pp. 237. John Lane Co. $1.50 net. 

A Little Sister of Destiny. By Gelett Burgess. 12mo, 
pp. 259. Houghton, Mifflin & Co. $1.50. 

In the Shadow. By Henry C. Rowland. 12mo, pp. 316. 

D. Appleton & Co. $1.50. 

The Woman in the Alcove. By Anna Katharine Green. 

Illus., 12mo, pp. 372. Bobbs-Merrill Co. $1.50. 
Kenelm's Desire. By Hughes Cornell. 12mo, pp. 388. Little, 

Brown. & Co. $1.50. 
In our Town. By William Allen White. Illus., 12mo, pp. 369. 

McClure, Phillips & Co. $1.50. 
The False Gods. By George Horace Lorimer. Illus., 12mo, 

pp. 91. D. Appleton & Co. $1.25. 
Cowardice Court. By George Barr McCutcheon; illus. in 

color by Harrison Fisher; decorated by Theodore B. Hap- 
good. 12mo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 140. Dodd, Mead & Co. $1.25. 
Between Two Masters. By Gamaliel Bradford, Jr. 12mo. 

pp. 336. Houghton, Mifflin & Co. $1.50. 
The Princess Olga. By Ervin Wardman. 12mo, pp. 315. 

Harper & Brothers. $1.50. 
The Tower. By Mary Tappan Wright. 12mo, gilt top, pp. 422. 

Charles Scribner's Sons. $1.50. 
The Ghosts of their Ancestors. By Weymer Jay Mills. Illus. 

in color, etc., 16rao, uncut, pp. 143. Fox. Duffleld & Co. $1.25. 
The Mechanic : A Romance of Steel and Oil. By Allan Mc- 

Ivor. 12mo, pp. 300. New York : William Ritchie. $1.50. 
Six Stars. By Nelson Lloyd. Illus., 12mo, pp. 315. Charles 

Scribner's Sons. $1.50. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



305 



A Sicilian If arriagre. By Douglas Sladen. Illus., 12mo, pp. 302. 
James Pott & Co. fl.50. 

The Lady of the Decoration. By Frances Little. l6mo,pp.236. 
Century Co. $1. 

Chip, of the Flying- U. By B. M. Bower (" B. M. Sinclair "). 
Illus. in color, 12mo. pp. 264. G. W. Dillingham Co. $1.25. 

If ore Stories of If anied Life. By Mary Stewart Cutting:. 
With frontispiece. 12mo, pp. 260. McClure, Phillips & Co. $1.25. 

The Four Million. By O. Henry, l^mo, pp. 261. McClure, 
Phillips & Co. $1. 

The Sin of Stdnt Desmond. By Amy Cameron Fariss. With 
frontispiece. 12mo, uncut, pp. 351. Gorham Press. $1.50. 

Shadow Liand : Stories of the South. By Florence H. Robert- 
son. Illus.. 12mo. pp. 91. Gorham Press. $1.25. 

The Circular Study. By Anna Katharine Green. Popular edi- 
tion ; 12mo, pp. 289. R. F. Fenno & Co. 50 cts. net. 

Tanerled Threads : A Tale of Mormonism. By M. E. Dudley. 
Illus., 12mo. pp. 48. Gorham Press. 50 cts. 

TBAVEIi AND DESCBIFTION. 

liife in the Open : Sport with Rod, Gun, Horse and Hound in 
Southern California. By Charles Frederick Holder. Illus. in 
photorra\Tire, etc., large 8vo. gilt top, pp. 401. G. P. Putnam's 
Sons. $3.50 net. 

The Philippine Experiences of an American Teacher. By 
William B. Freer. Illus., 12mo, pp. 344. Charles Scribner's 
Sons. $1.5(1 net. 

Benares, the Sacred City : Sketches of Hindu Life and Re- 
ligion. By E. B. Ha veil, A.R.C.A. Illus., 8vo, gilt top, pp.226. 
London: Blackie & Son, Limited. 

Ten Thousand If lies In a Tacht : Round the West Indies 
and up the Amazon. By Richard Arthur ; with Introduction 
by William M. Ivins. Illus., 8vo, gilt top, pp. 253. E. P. 
Dutton & Co. $2. net. 

How to Prepare for Europe. By H. A. Ouerber. Illus., 16mo, 
pp. 527. Dodd. Mead & Co. $2. net. 

Braj. the Vaishnava Holy Land. By Rev. J. E. Scott, Ph.D. 
Illus., 12mo, pp. 181. Eaton & Mains. $1. net. 

BELIGION AND THEOLOGY. 

The Personality of Jesus. By Charles H. Barrows. 12mo, 

pp. 247. Houghton Mifflin & Co. $1.25 net. 
The Happy Christ : .\ Monograph. By Harold Begbie. 16mo, 

gUt top. pp. 101. Dodd, Mead & Co. $1. net. 
The Soul of the People : A New Year's Sermon. By WllUam 

M. Ivins. 16mo, uncut, pp. 69. Century Co. 
The Double Doctrine of the Church of Borne. By Baroness 

von Zedtwitz. 12mo, uncut, pp. 63. Fleming H. Revell Co. 

35 cts. net. 
Primer of Christian Doctrine. By Milton S. Terry, D.D. 

18mo, pp. 86. Jennings & Graham. 30 cts. net. 

ECONOMICS. - POLITICS. - SOCIOLOGY. 

The Heart of the Ballroad Problem. By Frank Parsons, 
Ph.D. 12mo, pp. 364. Little, Brown, & Co. $1.50 net. 

The New Far East. By Thomas F. Millard. 8vo. gilt top, 
pp. 319. Charles Scribner's Sons. $1.50 net. 

The Electoral System of the United States : Its History. 
By J. Hampden Dougherty. Large 8vo, pp. 425. G. P. Put- 
nam's Sons. $2. net. 

The Unit of Strife. By E. K. Garrod. 12mo, pp. 194. Long- 
mans. Green. & Co. $1.20 net. 

Social Progress : An International Year Book of Ekxjnomic, 
Industrial, Social, and Religious Statistics, 1906. Edited by 
Josiah Strong. 8vo, pp. 336. Baker & Taylor Co. $1. net. 

The Foundations of the Bepublic. By Edward Everett 
Hale. With portrait, 12mo, gilt top, pp. 92. James Pott & Co. 
75 cts. net. 

SCIENCE AND NATTJBE. 

The Dynamics of Living Matter. By Jacques Loeb. 8vo. 

uncut, pp. 233. " Columbia University Biological Series." 

Macmillan Co. $3. net. 
The Basses. Fresh-Water and Marine. By WiUiam C. Harris 

and Tarleton H. Bean; edited by Louis Rhead. nius. in 

color, etc.. large 8vo, pp. 238. Frederick A. Stokes Co. 
The Wild-Flowers of Selbome, and Other Papers. By John 

Vaughan. M.A. Illus., 12mo, gUt top, uncut, pp. 247. John 

Lane Co. $1.50 net. 

BOOKS OF BEFEBENCE. 
Bibliography of the Sanskrit Drama. With Introductory 
Sketch of the Dramatic Literature of India. By Montgomery 
Schuyler. Jr.. A.M. 8vo, gilt top, pp.105. " Columbia Uni- 
versity Indo-Iranian Series." Macmillan Co. $1.50 net. 



The Green Boom Book ; or. Who 's WTio on the Stage. Edited 

by Bampton Himt. Illus., 12mo, pp. 452. Frederick Wame & 

Co. $1.50 net. 
The English Catalogue of Books for 1906. 4to, pp. 302. 

London: The Publishers' Circular, Ltd. (New York: Office 

of The Publishers' Weekly. ) $1.50 net. 
Automobile Dictionary : English, French, and Grerman. By 

Sigmund Krausz ; with Introduction by Charles J. Glidden. 

16mo, pp. 129. Frederick A. Stokes Co. $2. net. 

ABT. 
Drawings of David Coz. With Introduction by Alexander J. 

Finberg. Illus. in color, etc., 4to, gUt top. " Modem Master 

Draughtsmen." Charles Scribner's Sons. $2.50 net. 
French Pottery and Porcelain. By Henri Frantz. Illus. in 

color, etc., 8vo, gUt top, pp. 177. " Newnes' Library of the 

Applied Arts." Charles Scribner's Sons. $2.50 net. 
The Museums and Bulns of Borne. By Walther Amelung 

and Heinrich Holtzinger; English edition revised by the 
authors and Mrs. S. Arthur Strong, LL.D. In 2 vols., iUus., 

16mo. E. P. Dutton & Co. $3. net. 
The National Gallery, London: The Flemish SchooL 

With Introduction by Frederick Wedmore. Hlus. in photo- 

gra^Tire. etc., 8vo. " The Art Galleries of Europe." Frederick 

Wame & Co. $1.25 net. 
Giovanni Bellini. With Introduction by Everard Meynell. 

Illus. in photogravure, etc., 8vo. " Newnes' Art Library." 

Frederick Wame & Co. $1.25 net. 
Francisco de Goya. By Richard Muther. Illus., 18mo, gilt top. 

pp. 61. " Langham Series of Art Monographs." Charles 

Scribner's Sons. Leather, $1. net. 
The English Water Colour Painters. By A. J. Finberg. 

Illus., 18mo, gUt top, pp. 190. " Popular Library of Art." 

E. P. Dutton & Co. 75 cts. net. 

BOOKS ON CHILDHOOD. 

Problems of Babyhood : Bmlding a Constitution ; Forming a 
Charactfer. By Rachel Kent Fitz, A.M., and Greorge Wells 
Fitz. M.D. IUus.. 16mo, pp. 127. Henry Holt & Co. $1.25 net. 

Childhood. By Mrs. Theodore W. Bimey ; with Introduction 
by G. Stanley Hall, Ph.D. 12mo. pp. 254. Frederick A. Stokes 
Co. $1. net. 

Childhood and Growth. By Lafayette B. Mendel ; with Intro- 
duction by Horace Fletcher. 16mo, gUt top, pp. 54. Frederick 
A. Stokes Co. 60 cts. net. 

BOOKS FOB THE YOUNG. 

A Summer in Apple Tree Inn. By Ella Partridge Lipsett . 
Illus.. 12mo. pp. 247. Henry Holt & Co. $1.25. 

Harper's Young People Series. New vols. : Alice's Adven- 
tures in Wonderland, Through the Looking-Glass, and the 
Hunting of the Snark and Other Poems, each by Lewis Car- 
roll, illus. by Peter Newell ; PhU and the Baby, and False Wit- 
1 ness, each by Lucy C. LUUe. J 16mo. IHarper & Brothers. Per 
Ivol., 60 cts. : 

Waste Not, Want Not Stories. Retold by Clifton Johnson. 
IUus., 12mo. pp. 260. American Book Co. 50 cts. 

American Hero Stories, 1492-1865. By Eva March Tappan, 
Ph.D. IUus.. 12mo, pp. 265. Houghton, Mifflin & Co. 55 cts. 

Thirty More Famous Stories Betold. By James Baldwin. 
IUus., 12mo. pp. 235. American Book Co. 50 cts. 

Boblnson Crusoe for Children. Rewritten by James Bald- 
win. IUus., 12mo. pp. 191. American Book Co. 35 cts. 

Nine Choice PoemsofLongfeUow, Lowell. Macaulay. Byron, 

I^Browning, and SheUey. Edited by James Baldwin. With por- 
traits, 12mo, pp. 112. American Book Co. 25 cts. 

EDUCATION. 

The German Universities and University Study. By 
Friedrich Paulsen; authorized translation by Frank ThUly 
and WUliam W. Elwang. 8vo, pp. 451. Charles Scribner's 
Sons. $3. net. 

Dynamic Factors in Education. By M. V. O'Shea. 12mo, 
pp. 320. Macmillan Co. $1.25 net. 

Language Headers. By Franklin T. Baker, George R. Car- 
penter, and others. In 6 books, Ulus. in color, etc., 8vo. Mac- 
miUan Co. 

A Short History of England's and America's Literature. 
By Eva March Tappan, Ph.D. IUus., 12mo, pp. 420. Hough- 
ton, Mifflin & Co. $1.20 net. 

Composition-Bhetorlc. By Stratton D. Brooks and Marietta 
Hubbard. l2mo. pp. 442. American Book Co. $1. 

American Poems, 1776-1900. With notes and biographies by 
Augustus White Long. 12mo, pp.368. American Book Co. 90 cts. 

L'Ancien B%ime. By H. A. Taine; edited by W. F. Giese. 
16mo, pp. 327. D. C. Heath & Co. 65 cts. 



306 



THE DIAL 



[May 1, 



University of Ohlcagro Songr Book. Compiled by William 

A. McDermid. With portrait, 4to, pp. 151. Hinds, Noble & 

Eldredge. 
Manual of American Literature. By James B. Smiley, A.M. 

With portraits, 16mo, pp. 336. American Book Co. 60 cts. 
The Elements of Grammar and Composition. By W. J". 

Webster and Alice Woodworth Cooley. 12mo, pp. 264. 

Houghton, Mifflin & Co. 55 cts. 
CoUegre Songrs. Compiled by Henry Randall Waite. New 

enlarged edition ; 4to, pp. 128. Oliver Ditson Co. 50 cts. 
Methode Henin : First Year in French for Beginners. By B. 

L. H6nin, L.L.B. 8vo, pp. 52. D. C. Heath & Co. 50 cts. 
Essays of Elia, First Series. By Charles Lamb; edited by 

Gteorge Armstrong Wauchope, M.A. With portrait, 16mo, pp. 

302. Ginn & Co. 45 cts. 
Excursions sur les Bords du Shin. By Alexandre Dumas ; 

edited by Theodore Henckels. 12mo, pp. 176. American Book 

Co. 40 cts. 
Die Stetnklopf er. By Ferdinand von Saar ; edited by Charles 

Hart Handschin, Ph.D., and Edwin Carl Roedder, Ph.D. 

16mo, pp. 117. Henry Holt & Co. 35 cts. net. 
Les Deux Sourds. By Jules Moinaux; edited by I. H. B. 

Spiers. 16mo, pp. 53. D. C. Heath & Co. 25 cts. 
Washingrton's Farewell Address and Webster's Bunker 

Hill Orations. Edited by William T. Peck. With portrait, 

16mo, pp. 131. Macmillan Co. 25 cts. 
Graded Spelling Books for City Schools. By W. J. Moran 

and C. H. Brelsford. In 8 books, 12mo. Hinds, Noble & 

Eldredge. „ 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Aristotle's Theory of Conduct. By Thomas Marshall, M.A. 

Large 8vo, gilt top, pp. 578. London : T. Fisher Unwin. 
Elocution: Its First Principles. By W. H. Breare. Large 8vo, 

pp. 122. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $1. net. 



MSS 



PREPARED for publication and carefully typewritten. For 
• particulars address T. A. W., 314 Second Ave., N. T. City. 



ROnkT^ ^^^ OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS SUPPLIED, 
■J"WrVO. no matter on what subject. Write us. We can get 
you any book ever published. Please state wants. Catalogue free. 
BAKER'S GREAT BOOK-SHOP, 14-16 Bright St., BmHiNeHAM, Ems. 



FOR ANY BOOK ON EARTH write to H. H. TIMBY, 

Book Hunter. Catalogues free. Ist Nat. Bank Bldg., Couneaut, O. 



STORY-WRITERS, Biographers. Historians, Poets-Do 

-^^.— ^^^-^^^— — — you desire the honest criticism of your 
book, or its skilled revision and correction, or advice as to puiicaion? 
Such work, said George William Curtis, is " done as it shoiild be by The 
Easy Chair's friend and fellow laborer in letters, Dr. Titus M. Coan." 
Terms by agreement. Send for circular D, or forward your book or MS. 
to the New York Bureau of Revision, 70 Fifth Ave., New York. 



JBOTOK 
PLATES 




Engraved on Copper, Steel, or Wood 

Antique ob Modern Designs. 
Heraldry a Specialty. 

Crests and Coats of Arms. 

ROBERT SNEIDER COMPANY 



143-145 Fulton Street 



NEW YORK. 



MSS. 



CRITICISED AND PLACED 

Highest Kefrrences 
RUTH L. GAINES 

The Century Building, 1 West Thirty-fourth Street, New York 



WILLIAM R.JENKINS 

851 and 853 Sixth Avenue (cor. 48th Street) New York 

No branch stores 



FRENCH 

and other 
foreign 

BOOKS 



BEAD CUB 

ROMANS CHOISIS SERIES 

26 Titles. Paper 60c., cloth 86c. vol. 

CONTES CHOISIS SERIES 

24 Titles. Paper 25c. , cloth 40c. vol. 
Masterpieces, pure, by well-known authors. 
Read extensively by classes ; notes in English. 
List, also catalogue of all publications and 
imported books, on application. 



SUMMER CLASSES FOR THE STUDY 
OF ENGLISH 

Fifth Session, 1906, Cambridge, Mass. 
For HanuBcript Readers and Writers : The study and 
composition of English prose, and of short stories. 

For Teachers: Courses in "Idylls of the King," Fiction. 
Modem English Grammar, Old English, etc. 

Send for full list of courses to 
H. A. DAVIDSON, The Study-Guide Series, Cambridge. Mass. 

BY A WRITER STILL LIVING, WHO WAS ON THE SPOT 

JOHN BROWN THE HERO 

Personal R'.miniscfnces. By J. W. WINKLE Y, M.D. With an Intro- 
duction by Hon. Fkank B. Sanborn. Illustrated. Cloth, 85 cents net, 
postage 6 cents. [Descriptive circular on request.] 
"The little book, 'John Brown the Hero,' has the value which 

always attaches to the direct materials of history, — in this case to a 

clear and simple statement of facts highly interesting." — Col. Thomas 

Wbntworth HiaoiNSON. 
"Chock full of interest."— ?7nt7j/ (Chicago). 

JAMES H. WEST CO. PUBLISHERS BOSTON 



Science; the Mind 

Revelation; the Heart of God 

By ./. ir. HARWELL 

A Business Man's Ideas of a Common Belief. 

Pamphlet, 25c 

JACOBS & HOLMES, Publishers 

167 E. Adams St., Chicago, 111. 



Plato: Immortality 

HIS LIFE; THE ARGUMENT; BIG TYPE; 
PAPER, 3c; DAINTY CLOTH, ISc. A SAMPLE 
OF BARGAINS IN BOOKS; LIST FREE. OP 
DEALERS OR AGENTS. BIG PROFITS. 

ALDEN BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS 

429 Bible House, New York City 







WORK IN A LIBRARY 

Its pleasures and duties : How and what to 
study for it. Read PUBLIC LIBRARIES, 
a practical jonmal. monthly. $1. a year. 
Sample copy sent free. 

PUBLIC LIBRARIES 



156 Wabash Avenue 



CHICAGO 



TWO TO ONE 

Is about the ratio of advertising to reading matter in certain 
of the popular magazines. People who grow fatigued with 
holding 200 pages of advertisements for the pleasure of perus- 
ing 100 pages of reading matter will find 

THE LIVING AGE 

delightfully light and easy to hold. Each weekly number 
contains 64 pages, which are not sandwiched between great 
masses of advertisements. The magazine reproduces with- 
out abridgment the most important articles from more than 
thirty of the leading English periodicals. It publishes the 
best essays, fiction, poetry, travel sketches, literary, art, and 
musical criticism, discussions of social, religious, and edu- 
cational Questions, and papers upon Public Affairs and 
International Politics. More than 3,300 pages each year. 
— Annual subscription post-paid, six dollars. — Trial sub- 
scription, three months, thirteen numbers, one dollar. 

THE LIVING AGE CO., 6 Beacon St., Boston, Mass. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



307 



WHAT WE ARE DOING 
FOR LIBRARIANS 

We now hare the most efficient department for the han- 
dling of Library orders. 

1. A tremendooa Duscellaneotu stock. 

2. Greatly increased facilities for the importation of 
English publications. 

X Competent bookmen to price lists and collect books. 
All this means prompt and complete shipments and right 
prices. ^^^^^^^ 

THE BAKER & TAYLOR CO., whoUsau Booktiurs 

33-37 East Seventeenth Street. New YoriE 



FRANKLIN'S BOYHOOD 

From the Autobiography; Franklin's letters on War and 
Peace and his Plan for Western Colonies are just added 
to the Old South Leaflets, Nos. 161-163. 

No. 9, The Plan of L'nion, 1754, is another Franklin 
leaflet. 

Price, 5 cents a copy. 

Send for complete litis. 



DIRECTORS OF OLD SOUTH WORK 

Old South Meeting House 
WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON 



SfBiSiPKnSB 

TTPEWKITZES 

•ppeal to your sens* and your tenses 

Th«y have the listht touch which makes 

for speed and attractive writine. 

Thx Smitb Pekxieb Ttfewrjteb Co. 

Syracose, Ji. Y. 

Branch Store* Everywhere 



20 



E. Van Buren Street 
CHICAGO 



THE BOOKS 


OF ALL PUBLISHERS 


are carried in our stock, 


which is larger and more 

general than that of any \ 

other house in the country. 


LIBRARY ORDERS 


given prompt and intelligent 
service. Our large stock 


and extensive library expe- 
rience enables us to give 


valuable aid and advice to 


libraries and librarians. 


CATALOGUE CARDS and 


CARD CABINETS j 


We carry a special line and 
will be glad to furnish a 


price list. 


LIBRARY DEPARTMENT 


A. C. McCLURG & CO. 


CHICAGO 



"THE RIVETERS" 

Tinted Insert of a study by Fked Daka Mabsh among 
illustrations of an article on his work In depicting 
building of our skyscrapers, etc., written by Arthuk 

HOKBEB. 

"GLASS MOSAIC" 

W. H. Thomas writes of "An Old Art with a New 
Distinction " showing new work in the Cathedral of St. 
John-the-Divine, X.Y.. Baltimore. Cleveland. Columbus. 

FLOWER PAINTING 

The character of modem work estimated by T. MABTnr 
Wood with Ulnstrations. three in color. 

GAINSBOROUGH 

Technical Hints from his Drawings with Lithographic 
Insert of a Pen and Wash Sketch. 

INTERNATIONAL 
STUDIO 

Kine Color Inserts Suitable 
for Franxine: 

SOLD EVERYWHERE 




308' THE DIAL [May 1,1906. 

Three Exceptional New Books 

Volumes whose Permanent Worth should place them 
in every Public and Private Library 

Panama to Patagonia 

Mr. Charles M. Pepper's very timely work on the Isthmian Canal and the 
West Coast countries of South America is meeting with the serious attention 
from leading newspapers that so important a book deserves. " It is much," says 
the Chicago Evening Post, " to have the main and manifold facts on this broad 
subject stated at once so intelligently and so intelligibly. Much of it is first- 
hand information, presented with a great deal of vivid attractiveness, but there 
is still more of definite statistical information." 

With maps and many illustrations. $2.50 net. 

The Glory Seekers 

In no single volume has there been presented such an interesting and accurate 
account of the early days of the Southwest. This part of the country was the 
theatre for some of the most dramatic episodes of our history — the exploits of 
the would-be founders of empire who led forlorn hopes into this region. Aaron 
Burr, Gen. James Wilkinson, " Citizen " Genet, PhiHp Nolan, Reuben Kemper, 
Dr. Long, and all the other real soldiers of fortune who risked so much for 
nothing have never found so entertaining and sympathetic a chronicler as 
William Horace Brown, the author of " The Glory Seekers." 

With illustrations. $1.50 net. 



"Ground Arms!" 



In order to supply the marked demand for the English version of " Die 
Waffen Nieder!" the Baroness von Suttner's famous story of European war 
which won the Nobel Peace Prize, a re-issue was made of our early edition 
which had been out of print. In the meantime a new edition was under 
way which is now ready. The book has been entirely re-set, with a larger type- 
page, and printed and bound in a thoroughly appropriate manner, with a 
striking decorative cover. The famous novel is now available in a permanent 
form that will be generally acceptable. 

With portrait. $1.25. 

A. C. McClurg & Company - - Publishers, Chicago 

THE DIAI. PBBS8, FINE A.BT8 BUILDIHa, CHICAOO 



f. 



Public 




:bV 



THE DIAL 

^ SEMI-MONTHLY JOURNAL OF 

yitfrarg Crilinsm, giscussiun, antr Information. 



Edited by 
FRANCIS F. BROWNE 



} ^'Irf ^- CHICAGO, MAY 16, 1906. '^"^^ l^^- { 



FlKB AS.TS BmDUiQ 

aos Michigan Blvd. 



IMPORTANT SPRING BOOKS 



THE GERMAN UNIVERSITIES 

By FRIEDEICH PAULSEN. Translated by F. Thillt and W. W. Elwaxg. 
" The problems discussed by the author are universal in their nature and his conclusions are of value to everyone interested 
in higher education. In fact, this work can be studied to advantage by everyone, whether president, professor, board mem- 
ber, or student." — Chicago Inter Ocean. $3.00 net. Postpaid $3.26. 



THE ORIGIN AND PERMANENT 
VALUE OF THE OLD TESTAMENT 

By CHARLES FOSTER KENT. Ph.D.. 
Woolsey Professor of Biblical Literature, Yale University. 
A book that states concisely and lucidly, for the benefit of 
the thoughtful layman, pastor. Bible teacher, and student, 
the historical reasons and positive results of the best 
present-day biblical scholarship. 12mo. $1.00 net. Postage 
11 cents. 



THE APOSTOLIC AGE 

In the Light of Modern Criticism 

By JAMES HARDY ROPES, 

Professor of Xew Testament Criticism and Interpretation, 

Harvard University. 
A thoroughly popular and at the same time authoritative 
account of the Apostolic Age, the spread of the Gospel, and 
the beginnings of the Christian Church. 12mo. $1.50 net. 
Postage 12 cents. 



A HISTORY OF THE REFORIVIATION 

By THOMAS M. LIKDSAY. Vol. i., THE REFORMATION IN GERMANY 

" A most important and scholarly contribution to the study of that period. It deals with the Reformation in Germany from 
its beginning to the Religious Peace of Augsburg, and its siJecial intention is ' to describe this great religious movement 
amid its social environment.' " $2.50 net. 

CAMP KITS AND CAMP LIFE 

By CHARLES STEDMAX HA>*KS K" N'iblick"), author of " Hints to Golfers." 
The best handbook for the woods ever published. It contains directions and suggestions for cooking, iriaking camp, shoot- 
ing, fishing, illness in camp, outfit, etc. Illustrated. $1.50 net. Postpaid. $1.62. 



THE SEASONS 

IN A FLOWER GARDEN 

By LOUISE SHELTON. 
A practical guide for amateurs who have small gardens 
where space must be economized in order to secure a variety 
of constantly flowering plants from April to Xovember. 
Illustrated. $1.00 net. Postage extra. 



MY LITTLE BOY 

By CABL EWALD. Translated by A. Teixeiba db Mattos. 
An exquisite story of a little boy and his father. Georg 
Brandes said recently : " " My Little Boy ' is the acme of 
the literary output of the year. Carl Ewald has written 
many a fine book, but in this he has taken every heart by 
assault." $1.00. 



LEO TOLSTOY, His Life and Work 

.A.utobiographical Memoirs, Letters and Bic^raphical Material, compiled by Paul Birukoff and revised by Leo Tolstoy. 
One of the most important and remarkable biographies ever published. This ficrst volume deals with Tolstoy's early life 
untU his marriage. Finely illustrated. $1.50 net. 



LUCY OF THE STARS 

By FREDERICK PALMER, author of ' The Vagabond." 
.A. vivid, powerful story of love, politics, and business to-day. The interesting and varied characters of the two heroes and 
the two heroines, the keen and witty conmients on men and things, and the strong and thoughtful ideas tmderlying the 
story, make this a great novel. Illustrated. $1^0. 



THE PINK TYPHOON 

By HARRISON ROBERTSON. 
A bright, quick, and delightfully amusing love story, in 
which an automobile is one of the principal characters. It is 
a tale of the automobile at home, not a touring story. $1.50. 



THE LAW-BREAKERS 

By ROBERT GRANT. 
The first book of short stories that Judge Grant has written 
in ten years. There are problem stories, love stories, and 
tales of character and humor. $1.25. 



CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS 



NEW YORK 



310 



THE DIAL 



[May 16, 



EVERY LIBRARY SHOULD HAVE 

The Sumptuous and Definitive Volume 

Collected Sonnets of Lloyd Mifflin 



Henry Frowde, London. 1st edition. Photog^vure portrait. 
Postpaid, $2.80. 



$2.60. 




This handsome volume, with its wide-margined 400 pages, contains 350 of 
the best Somiets which the author has produced during a life devoted to poetry. 
In every way the book is a remarkable production. It contains many new 
Sonnets not before published. No American library can be considered complete 
without it. 

Read the Verdict of High Authorities in Great Britain and America 

Westminster Review : — Mr. Lloyd Mifflin's sonnets exceed in number the Rime of Petrarch, and cover 
a wider field of thought, experience, and imagination. ... It would be idle to attempt, in the limits of a 
short notice, anything like a critical examination of this wonderfid collection. . . . He possesses a vivid 
imagination, kept under severe restraint, a delicate ear for rhythm, together with the faculty of pictorial 
presentation. These qualities, combined with a well-nigh faultless technique, render him miapproachable 
by any living English sonneteer. 

Mrs. Ella Higginson : — No American has ever made such an enduring and noteworthy contribution to 
the sonnet literature of the world. He stands beside Wordsworth. His work has the dignity, the serenity, 
the seriousness, the fine imagination and the diction, exquisitely simple and rich, that mark the great poet. 

Mr. W. D. Howells : — A little more courage to know what is undeniably great, although it is our own, 
seems to me still desirable in our criticism, and when it comes Mr. Mifflin's poetry will have its reward. 

St. Andrew^s University : — Lloyd Mifflin is a poet born, not made. We camiot withhold our admira- 
tion from a collection of sonnets which have a charm and a beauty about them giving evidence of the work 
of a poet of remarkable poetic genius. 

A herdeen Free Press : — To the rare gift of a penetrative imagination he brings a finely balanced intel- 
lect and a keen sense of poetic* diction. ... In his highest flights he shows a warmth of imagination, a 
richness of colour, a clarity of thought, and an almost perfect technique that shows him not unworthy to 
walk beside the greatest sonneteers in the annals of the English language. 

Prof, A . S. Mackenzie, Kentucky State College, in the Louisville Courier-Journal : — Lloyd Mifflin, in 
my opinion, is the greatest poet of America, past or present. . . . The sad part of it is that a man has to 
die to become famous. 

Dundee A dvertiser : — There are some critics who maintain that American poetry is on the decline. 
The halcyon days of Bryant, Longfellow, Poe, Lowell, Whittier and Whitman are gone, it is said. While 
there may be a grain of truth in the accusation, it cannot justly be alleged that poetry of the higher order no 
longer has an exponent in America while Lloyd Mifflin still remains to carry on the great tradition of song. 

Yorkshire Post : — ... Some are suffused with tenderness and beauty : a few, very few, are splendidly 
strong. To say that some half-dozen should find a place in the most choice " Somiet Anthology " of the 
future is the greatest praise we can conceive. 

Evening Post : — Mr. Mifflin is justly entitled to a high position as a sonneteer. In his own way there 
is no one now living to equal him. Indeed, it is only just to remember that there have been in the course 
of English literary history only a very few poets who could get together a collection of sonnets at once so 
mmaerous as this and of such high technical excellence. The volume contains three hundred and fifty 
pieces, and is then but a selection. 

R. H. Stoddard : — His faults are condoned by many excellent qualities, and by one in which he has no 
superior among living American poets, if indeed an equal — a glorious imagination. . . . The man who wrote 
this sonnet (" The Flight ") is a true poet, and must soon be reckoned among the masters of American song. 



FOR SALE BY ALL BOOKSELLERS. 



OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS 

NEW YORK CITY 



AMERICAN BRANCH 

Nos. 91-93 FIFTH AVENUE 



OTHER BOOKS BY LLOYD MIFFLIN: At the Gates of Song (Frowde, $1.25); The Slopes of Helicon 
(Estes, $1.2.5); The Fields of Dawn, and Echoes of Greek Idyls (Houghton, Mifflin & Co., each $1.2.5); Castalian 
Days (Frowde, $1.25) ; The Fleeing Nymph (Small, Maynard & Co., $1.00) ; My Lady of Dream — just published — 
(Frowde, $1.00). Postage extra. 



1906] THE DIAL 311 

THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO PRESS 

NEW BOOKS 

The Silver Age of the Greek World By john pentland mahaffy 

" This book is intended to replace my ' Greek World under Roman Sway,' now out of print, 
in a maturer and better form, and with much new material superadded. There has grown up, 
since its appearance, a wider and more intelligent view of Greek life, and people are not satis- 
fied with knowing the Golden Age only, without caring for what came before and followed 
after. In this Silver Age of Hellenism many splendid things were produced, and the world 
was moulded by the teaching that went forth from Greek lands." {Extract from the preface.) 
490 pages; small 8vo, cloth, $3.00. Carriage 17 cts. 

Hebrew Life and Thought By louise seymour houghton 

The reader of the Bible who wishes to be well informed, and who yet finds little to attract him 
in accounts of scientific investigations, will do well to read this book. Enriched with the fruits 
of a life-time of study and versed in the intricacies of modern criticism, the author approaches 
her subject with a depth of feeling that reminds one of the best religious writers of the past. 
390 pages; izmo, cloth; $1.50. Carriage 15 cts. 

The Social Ideals of Alfred Tennyson as Related 

to His Time By william c. gordon 

It is rare that two departments of study are combined as cleverly and as profitably as English 
literature and sociology are combined in this work. It is a treatment, on a somewhat novel 
plan, of a subject at once literary and scientific. 266 pages; i2mo, cloth; $1.50. Carriage iic. 

The Legislative History of Naturalization in the 

United States By frank george franklin 

The process by which our national laws rose out of chaos is a subject of perennial interest. 
Not jurists alone, but all intelligent citizens, will be attracted by this summary of the intricate 
debates that fixed our national procedure regarding naturalization. 330 pages; izmo, cloth; 
$1.50. Carriage 13 cts. 

The Finality of the Christian Religion By george burman foster 

A long-looked-for work of profound interest to students of religion is now appearing in " The 
Finality of the Christian Religion," by George Burman Foster. Certaiiily no reader will 
escape a sense of sincere admiration at the power with which the problem is handled — the 
grasp, the fearlessness, the insight. 530 pages; 8to, cloth; ^4.00. Carriage 22 cts. 

Ancient Records of Egypt By james henry breasted 

Notwithstanding the rapid progress made during the last quarter-century in the reproduction 
and publication of documentary sources for our knowledge of the peoples of antiquity, no 
attempt has hitherto been made to collect and present in a modem language all the documents 
bearing upon Egyptian history. After ten years of labor. Prof. James H. Breasted now offers 
to Egyptologists and students of history a corpus of Egyptian inscriptions. The work is being 
published in four volumes, of which the first and second are now ready. To those who sub- 
scribe before July i a special price of $12.00 per set is offered ; after July i, $15.00 per set. 
Carriage zo cents additional for each volume. 

Russian Reader By samuel northrup harper 

After extensive studies in Moscow, Berlin, and Paris, Mr. Harper is bringing out a "Russian 
Reader," an adaptation of a French book compiled by Paul Beyer and N. Speranski. 
400 pages; 8vo, cloth; $3. 00. Carriage 20 cts. 

ADDRESS, DEPT. 20 

THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO PRESS 

CHICAGO AND NEW YORK 



312 



THE DIAL 



[May 16, 1906. 



Important New Macmillan Publications 



NEW NOVELS JUST READY 

Mr. John Luther Long's new nove^ 
The Way of the Gods ciom, $i.so. 

Since the death of Lafcadio Heam there is no one 
who approaches the author of " Madame Butter- 
fly" in the abUity to make his readers feel the 
charm and atmosphere of Japan, while he teUs of 
the fair Hoshiko's longing for the intense joy 
offered her at the price of great pain. 

Mr. Owen Wister^s new novel 
Lady Baltimore 

By the author of "The Virginian." Cloth, $1.50. 
Charmingly illustrated from original drawings. 
" Mr. Wister's deft, witty comedy is no mere witty 
trifling with the manners of people of leisure. 
There is an ideal, an ideal, beneath it — the Ameri- 
can people. . . . Very many readers will exclaim 
that they did not know he could do this sort of 
thing ; write, that is, a ' high comedy,' cut and pol- 
ish a jewel, move nimbly among very delicate 
emotions and ideas, which a single lapse into awk- 
wardness or roughness would destroy." 

The Times, London. 

Agnes & Egerton Castle's no^e^ 
If Youth But Knew cioth,$i.5o. 

" The story shows that rare combination of poetic 
tenderness and romantic adventure which is the 
unfailing charm of the fiction of these authors." 

— Record- Herald, Chicagro. 

Dr. Andrew Macphail's novel 
The Vine of Sibmah cioth,$i.5o. 

The author's intimate knowledge of Puritan times 
give the vitality of real scenes to the adventures of 
the valiant soldier who, after the Restoration, 
weUt seeking a certain winsome woman. Among 
Puritan divines and Puritan pirates, among Jesuits 
and Quakers, soldiers and savages, the quest leads 
him and his readers. 



NEW NOVELS IN PREPARATION 
FOR IMMEDIATE ISSUE 

Miss Marie Van Vorst's neivtiovei 
The Sin of George Warrener 

A study of life and manners among people at a 
suburban town, by the author of "Amanda of the 
Mill." The story is realistic and human, and its 
interesting theme is handled fearlessly. Cloth,$1.50. 

Mrs. Mabel Osgood Wright's 
The Garden, You and I cioth,$i.5o. 

The new book by the author of " The Garden of a 
Commuter's Wife " and "' People of the Whirlpool " 
returns to the famous home garden, which her 
practical ideas and wholesome humor enlivened, 
so charmingly. 

Mr. Winston ChurchiM'Sneix; no^e; 

GoniStOn illustrated. Cloth, $1.50. 

By the author of " Richard Carvel," " The Crisis," 
etc. Freely illustrated from drawings by Florence 
Scovel Shinn. To appear June lU. 



VERY RECENT ISSUES 

The Writings of 
Benjamin Franklin, Vol. VI. 

Collected and edited, with a Lite and introduction, 
by Albert H. Smyth. Special Limited Edition in 
ten volxmies, of which six are now ready. Sold by 
sets only. Price, $3.00 net per volume, as issued. 
" No former edition of Franklin's writings has ever 
approached this in fulness." — Review of Reviews. 

The Works of Maurice Hewlett 

Edition de Luxe in ten volumes, of which Vol. 
VIII., The Fool Errant, is just ready. Cloth deco- 
rated, gilt top. Sold on order for sets only. 

Price, $3.00 per volume, as issued. 
" For color, for picturesqueness, for character and 
for original power, they are among the best things 
done anywhere in our time." — New York Tribune. 

Cambridge Modern History 

Planned by the late Lord Acton. Edited by A. W. 
Ward, Litt.D., G. W. Prothero, Litt.D., Stanley 
Leathes, M.A. Vol. IX., NAPOLEON. Jiist 
Ready. To be complete in twelve imperial Svo 
volumes. Each, cloth, $J,.00 net. 

Dr. Kaempfer's 
A History of Japan 

as translated by J. G. Scheuchzer. 
The First Complete Reprint of this famous work 
since its publication in 1727. Three volumes with 
facsimiles of the original plates. Uniform with the 
Reprint of Coryat's Crudities, in the general style 
of Hakluyt's Voyages and Purchas His Pilgrimes. 
Three volumes, cloth, Svo, $9.00 for the set. 

John A. Ryan's A Living Wage 

A discussion of both its ethical and economic 
aspects, and of the basis of industrial, religious 
and moral fact upon which its principle rests. 

Cloth, Umo, $1.00 net. 

Professor L. H. Bailey's 
Plant Breeding 

Fourth edition, with additional material on the 
current practice of plant breeding. 

Cloth, 12mo, $1.25 net. 

Dr. Forest Ray Moulton's 
An Introduction to Astronomy 

A book for the student without mathematical or 
extensive scientific training, who may obtain from 
it not only some knowledge of scientific achieve- 
ments, but also something of the spirit which in- 
spires scientific work. Just ready. Cloth, $1.25 net. 

For every Household — before the Doctor comes. 

Black's Medical Dictionary 

Brief, clear, thoroughly modern and convenient. 
Uniform with " Who 's Who," in red flexible covers. 

Cloth, $2.50 net 



PUBLISHED 
BY 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 



64-66 Fifth Ave., 
NEW YORK 



THE DIAL 

31 5nni=fHflntf)l2 Journal of iitrrarg Criticism, Disrassion, ani lEnfortnatioiu 



THB DIAL (founded in ISSOJ it publi*hed on tJie Itt and 16th 
of each month. Terms op StTBSCRipnoN, tS. a year in advance, 
pottage prepaid in the United Statet, Canada, and Mexico; 
in other counlriet eomprited in the Pottal Union, SO cents a 
year for extra pottage mvut be added. BKxrrrAircBS thovML 
be by cheek, or by exx/rett or pottal order, payable to THB 
DIAL COMPAXY. Unlett otherwite ordered, tubtcriptiont 
will begin u-ith the current number. When no direct requett 
to diteontin ue aX expiration of tubtcription it received, it it 
attumed that a continuance of the tubtcription it detired. 
Advkktisixg KATBs/umt«7»«i on application. All eommimi- 
eatUma tfunUd be addretted to 

THE DIAL, Fine ArU BuHding, Chicago. 

EXTERED AT THE CHICAGO POSTOFFICE AS SECOND-CLASS KATTER 
BT THB DIAJL OOMPAmr, PITBUSHSRS. 



No. 478. 



MAY 16, 1906. 



Vol. XL. 



Contexts. 



THE TEACHING PROFESSION 313 

AN ACTOR'S MEMORIES OF A FELLOW ACTOR. 

Percy F. Bicknell 316 

THE RE-SHAPING OF THE ORIENT. Frederic 

Austin Ogg 317 

WALPOLE LETTERS, OLD AND NEW. H. W. 

Boynton 320 

A COMMERCIAL TRA\TXLER IN THE LAND 

OF PIZARRO. Thomas H. ilacbride . . .322 

THE BASIS OF CHRISTIANTTY. T. D. A. CodcereU 323 

RECENT ENGLISH POETRY. WUliatn Morton 

Payne 325 

Hardy's The Dynasts. — Phillips's Nero. — Selec- 
tions from the Poetry of John Payne. — Lang's New 
Collected Rhymes. — Herbert's Poems of the Seen 
and the Unseen. — Rieketts's Poems of Love and 
Nature. — Last Poems of Richard Watson Dixon. 
— Lonnsbery's Love's Testament. — Marks's The 
Tree of Knowledge. — Ethna Carbery's The Four 
Winds of Eirinn. — Eva Gore-Booth's The Three 
Resurrections and the Triumph of Maeve. 

BRIEFS ON NEW BOOKS 330 

Problems of Ireland and the Irish. — New edition 
of Swinburne's dramatic works. — A meritorious 
history of the United States. — Strange pranks 
played by lightning. — Eleven famous Introductions 
to the plays of Shakespeare. — Life and letters of an 
unfortunate Italian princess. — The story of Greece 
once more re-told. — The memoirs of an abolitionist. 
— An English admirer of Germany's development. 

BRIEFER MENTION 333 

NOTES 334 

LIST OF NEW BOOKS 335 



TRE TEACHING PROFESSION. 



No greater evil could befall the educational 
system of this country than that of becoming 
definitely crystallized into the type of organiza- 
tion exemplified by mercantile and corporate 
enterprise. The evil is imminent, and sometimes 
seems inevitable, so pervasive are the influences 
that tend to make educational administration a 
matter of business, and so persuasive is the argu- 
ment from analogy when addressed to ears pre- 
disposed by every familiar association to accept 
its validity. ^laterial and commercial modes of 
thinking prevail so largely in our national con- 
sciousness, and impose themselves so masterfully 
upon our narrowed imagination, that most people 
are ready to accept without hesitation their ex- 
tension into the domain of our intellectual con- 
cerns, particularly into that of the great concern 
of education. AVTiy, it is naively asked, why 
should not the methods that we apply with such 
pronounced success to the management of a bank 
or a railway prove equally efficient in the man- 
agement of a system of schools or a university ? 
Why should there not result from their employ- 
ment here the same sort of efficiency that results 
from their employment elsewhere ? Why should 
not the educational fruits of autocratic control, 
centralized administration, and the hierarchical 
gradation of responsibility and authority, be 
similar to their fruits in the field of commercial 
activity? 

These questions are not difficidt to answer, 
but it is difficult to frame the answer in terms 
that the successfid man of affairs will fiLnd in- 
telligible. The subject is one that he approaches 
with a prejudiced mind, although his bias is not 
so much due to perversity as to sheer inability 
to realize the fundamental nature of the question 
at issue. He is so fixed in the commercial way 
of looking at organized enterprise that he cannot 
so shift his bearings as to occupy, even tempo- 
rarily, the professional point of view. Now the 
idea of professionalism lies at the very core of 
educational endeavor, and whoever engages in 
educational work fails of his purpose in just so 
far as he faUs to assert the inherent prerogatives 
of his calling. He becomes a hireling, in fact 



314 



THE DIAL 



[May 16, 



if not in name, when lie suffers, unprotesting, 
the deprivation of all initiative, and contentedly 
plays the part of a cog in a mechanism whose 
motions are controlled from without. Yet the 
tendency in our country is to-day strongly set 
toward the recognition of this devitalized system 
of educational activity as suitable and praise- 
worthy, and the spirit of professionalism in 
teaching is engaged in what is nothing less than 
a life-and-death struggle. When a university 
president or a school principal can indulge un- 
rebuked in the insufferable arrogance of such an 
expression as " my faculty " or " one of my 
teachers," when school trustees are capable of 
calling superintendents and principals and teach- 
ers " employees," it is time to consider the matter 
somewhat seriously, and inquire into the probable 
consequences of so gross a misconception of the 
nature of educational service. 

There is one general consequence which sub- 
sumes all the others. It is that yoimg men of 
character and self-respect will refuse to engage 
in the work of teaching (except as a makeshift) 
as long as the authorities in charge of education 
remain blind to the professional character of the 
occupation, and deal with those engaged in it as 
objects of suspicion, or, at best, as irresponsible 
and unpractical theorists whose actions must be 
kept constantly under control and restricted by 
all manner of limitations and petty regulations. 
Membership in a profession implies a certain 
franchise, an emancipation from dictation, and 
a degree of liberty in the exercise of judgment, 
which most members of the teaching profession 
find are denied them by the prevalent forms of 
educational organization. And the denial is 
made the more exasperating by the conscious- 
ness that these rights (which are elementary 
and should be inalienable) are withheld by per- 
sons whose tenure of authority is more apt to be 
based upon the executive energy or the ability 
of the schemer or the success of the man of prac- 
tical affairs than upon expert acquaintance with 
the conditions of educational work. The " busi- 
ness " president or administrative board is bad 
enough, and the " political " president or board 
is worse ; yet upon the anything but tender 
mercies of the one or the other most men who 
devote their lives to the noble work of teaching 
must in large measure depend. 

The inevitable consequence of this condition 
is, as we have said, that a process of natural 
selection is constantly tending to drive the most 
capable men into professions which may be pur- 
sued upon professional terms, and to make the 



teaching profession more and more the resort 
of the poor in spirit, to whom the words of the 
Beatitude must have a distinctly ironical ring. 
To become a teacher in this country is, except 
in the case of a few favored institutions or 
systems, to subordinate one's individuality to a 
mechanism, and to expose one's self-respect to 
indignities of a peculiarly wanton sort. It is 
no wonder that the yoimg man of parts is not 
over-anxious to enter a profession so forbidding 
to every professional instinct, and that he turns 
aside from the educational field, however strong 
his natural inclination to enter it, when he gets 
sight of the artificial obstacles to its proper 
cultivation. 

It is often urged that the money rewards of 
the teaching profession are insufficient to attract 
to it the better class of men. This is undoubt- 
edly true up to a certain point, but to insist 
upon it overmuch is to take a more cynical view 
of human nature than we are willing to take. 
Inadequate compensation is a grievous fault 
of our educational provision, but it is not so 
grievous as the faults that undermine profes- 
sional self-respect, and sap educational vitality 
at its very root. Yet these graver faults are 
easily remediable, and would be promptly rem- 
edied if we could once rid ourselves of the 
obsession of the commercial or military type of 
administrative organization. K the educational 
laborer is worthy of his hire, he is even more 
worthy of the trust and confidence that neces- 
sarily appertain to his delicate and specialized 
duties, and to refuse him these is to degrade his 
effort into the mere journeyman's task. The 
whole question of the relative importance of 
compensation and consideration was thus stated 
by one of the speakers at the Illinois Trustees' 
Conference of last October : " Young men of 
power and ambition scorn what should be reck- 
oned the noblest of professions, not because that 
profession condenms them to poverty, but be- 
cause it dooms them to a sort of servitude. . . . 
The problem is not one of wages ; for no 
university can become rich enough to buy the 
independence of any man who is really worth 
purchasing." 

The more closely the business analogy is ex- 
amined the more apparent is its failure to fit 
the conditions of education. Efficiency in busi- 
ness is achieved by the subordination of individ- 
ual initiative to centralized direction. A highly 
capable manager makes all the plans, and trans- 
mits his ideas, through his heads of departments, 
to the host of workers, who are expected to do 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



315 



exactly as they are told. Now this arrangement, 
entirely proper in a department store or a rail- 
way company, becomes almost worthless when 
fitted to a university or a system of public 
schools, for here the one essential factor of suc- 
cess is that the teachers, who are in this case the 
host of workers, should be left unhampered by 
specific directions, and free to apply their own 
specialized intelligence to their work. Every 
attempt to shape that work from above, except 
in such mechanical or formal matters as the 
allotment of duties and the arrangement of pro- 
granunes, especially every attempt to impose 
tests or dictate concerning methods, is likely to 
work direct injury, and is certain in time to 
eliminate from the body of workers the very 
persons whom it is most desirable to retain. 
For it cannot be said too often or too emphat- 
ically that teaching is the personal concern of 
instructor and student, and that any meddling 
with this delicate and intimate relation will work 
much more mischief than good. So the com- 
mercial ideal of high-priced imperious manage- 
ment and low-priced docUe labor can have no 
place in educational work, where the ideal 
should be rather that of cordial cooperation 
between all the forces engaged, with the distinct 
admission that educational policy (as far as 
such a thing is found desirable) must proceed 
from the established teaching relation rather 
than from the doctrinaire mandate of the exec- 
utive theorist. 

We know very well the clamorous objections 
that will be raised against the fundamental prop- 
ositions above outlined. " Chaos is come asrain " 
wlQ be the outcry whenever education is sought 
to be rearranged upon these conditions. To 
such rigidity of mind have the majority of edu- 
cational leaders been reduced by the ideal of 
regimentation and the fetich- worship of system 
and uniformity that they are honestly incapable 
of realizing the individualist attitude or of sym- 
pathizing with the more hvmiane and rational 
principles which we have endeavored to set 
forth. Jealous enough of professional privilege 
on their own accoimt, they take a slighting view 
of the equally valid claims to professional con- 
sideration made by the body of actual teachers. 
They are so impressed by their smoothly- working 
machinery as to forget completely that the fash- 
ioning of soids is a very different affair from the 
manufacture of watches or other products of the 
mechanic arts. To their view, the alternative 
offered in place of their elaborate systems of 
executive control and the graded devolution of 



authority may well seem to deserve the name 
of chaos, but intelligent minds will not be ter- 
rified by a word which means, in this instance 
and in the last analysis, nothing more than 
a recognition of the fact that teachers and stu- 
dents are alike individuals, and that prescrip- 
tion en masse is the poorest possible way of 
dealing with difficulties that concern individuals 
alone. 

Aside from the cry of chaos, every plea for 
the rehabilitation of the teaching profession is 
sure to be met by the assertion that large num- 
bers of those engaged in it are unfit for the 
burden of professional responsibility. This is 
probably true. It would be surprising if it were 
not true, when we consider the meagreness of 
the rewards hitherto held out to the rank and 
file of the profession, and the constant growth 
of the regulative tendency which imfailingly 
operates to deter the best men from becoming 
teachers, and to drive from the ranks the best 
of those already enlisted. The situation, more- 
over, as respects the sort of ability, the type of 
outstanding personality, most to be desired, 
tends constantly to grow worse rather than bet- 
ter through the continuous operation of the same 
malisrn influences. But was there ever a more 
vicious circle of argument than that which de- 
fends the persistence in a system productive of 
such unfortunate results by urging that the per- 
sonnel of the profession has now been brought 
so low that the restoration of its inherent rights 
would entail disastrous consequences? Very 
possibly it would, and e\Tls of this sort might 
have to be faced, but they wovdd be in their 
nature temporary, and not nearly as dishearten- 
ing as the lasting and deepening evils involved 
in the perpetuation of an administrative policy 
which is an affront to every professional instinct. 
Professor Joseph Jastrow, in a remarkably 
forceful and enlightened discussion of this sub- 
ject in its bearings upon university administra- 
tion (" Science," April 13) puts the whole matter 
in a nutshell when he declares for the substitu- 
tion of " government by cooperation " for "gov- 
ernment by imposition." This is surely the ideal 
toward which everyone having at heart the in- 
terests of education as a professional matter 
should strive, in fields both high and low, and 
we have observed numerous recent indications 
of a reaction in this sense from the military or 
corporate ideal which has hitherto had things its 
own way. But the enemy is still strongly in- 
trenched, and his position will not easily be 
forced. 



316 



THE DIAL 



[May 16, 



t E^to ISooks. 



Ax AcTOK's Memories of a 
Fellow Actor.* 



For years, as one gathers from the pages 
of Mr. Francis Wilson's " Joseph Jefferson," 
the younger comedian has been dogging, with 
Boswellian intent, the footsteps of his elder 
fellow player. But the image here used is not 
well chosen ; nor, perhaps, woidd the author of 
the book feel himself complimented by being 
likened to Johnson's obsequious admirer. There 
was evidently but little of the Johnson-Boswell 
relation between the two men, at least according 
to the Macaiday conception of the great Doctor's 
biographer. Like ideals and kindred enthu- 
siasms appear to have rendered the two actors 
congenial to each other. Fondness for and 
familiarity with Shakespeare may be noted in 
both, with something more than a nodding ac- 
quaintance with the great masters of painting, 
a liking for literature and facility in the use of 
the pen, and a high sense of the dignity of their 
calling as dramatic artists. 

Having introduced the name of Boswell, let 
us permit Mr. Wilson to do what Boswell has 
done in the first part of his book ; that is, let us 
listen while the younger man narrates the cir- 
cumstances of his first entering the presence of 
the elder. 

" I first saw him one Saturday afternoon, in 1870, as 
I can see him now, on the southwest corner of Twenty- 
third Street and Sixth Avenue, New York, eating 
Malaga grapes out of a paper bag. In those days there 
was a fruit-stand on that corner. He stood on the curb- 
stone abstractedly eating the grapes and watching the 
crowd file into Booth's Theatre for the matinee per- 
formance of ' Rip van Winkle,' which was then in the 
midst of an eight months' run. How I drank him in 
and ate him up as he stood there, — and I remember 
how, boy-like, I brushed past him just to be able to feel 
that I had come in contact with him ! My action had 
not disturbed him, for he did not turn toward me or 
make any sign that he had heard my frightened words 
of apology. This relieved me, for I was so scared at my 
temerity that I should not have known what to say or 
do. I followed him, at a respectful distance, across the 
street, past the main entrance of the theatre, to that 
mysterious portal, the stage door, through which he 
vanished from my admiring gaze." 

The actual meeting of the two and the begin- 
ning of their acquaintance are thus described : 

" I had been corresponding with Mr. Jefferson about 
his Autobiography, but newly begun in the November 
• Century Magazine,' and he had promised to help with 

* Joseph Jefferson. Reminiscences of a Fellow Player. By 
Francis Wilson. Illustrated. New York: Charles Scribner's 
Sons. 



gifts of prints and letters in the extra-illustrating of my 
own copy when the Autobiography should be published 
in book form. He asked me to come and see him, ap- 
pointing the business office of the Park Theatre, Boston, 
as the place, and one o'clock as the hour. As I entered, 
he sprang from his chair, and before anyone could 
introduce us, he had grasped me by the hand, — and 
thus was realized my youthful dream of meeting Rip 
van Jefferson." 

The curious reader will thank Mr. Wilson for 
having adopted, as he himself confesses, some- 
thing of Boswell's pertinacious inquisitiveness 
in gathering information for his intended vol- 
ume. On one page we are somewhat amused 
to come upon the great actor in his dressing- 
room at the Fifth Avenue Theatre, arraj'^ed in 
a brown padded Chinese smoking jacket, and 
dozing in his chair, while his valet, the all-useful 
Karl, is in patient attendance, tickling the soles 
of his master's feet with a feather, — a gentle 
stimulation that drew off the blood from the 
head and superinduced a feeling of drowsy com- 
fort. Again, the biographer finds Mr. Jefferson 
clothed in a full suit of blue jeans and engrossed 
in his favorite avocation, painting. 

" He must have known I was taking notes, for he 
said I must not print the Irving discussion — at least, 
not now. Sometimes I read aloud what he said, and he 
corrected me if I had mistaken him. Like Boswell, 
' I know not . how such whimsical ideas come into my 
head,' but I asked him the most disconnected things, 
which often extracted a laugh from him and always a 
reply. . . . Boswell-like, I asked him a variety of im- 
related questions about his daughters, his sons, whether 
he meant to revive ' The Rivals,' why he painted with 
his fingers, why his hair kept so dark, how long he had 
been playing ' Rip van Winkle,' and the like. He told 
me about his daughters, one of whom, Mrs. Farjeon, 
wife of the novelist, he had not seen for twenty years. 
' Farjeon doesn 't write any more, does he ? ' I asked. 
'Not now,' he replied; 'his style has gone out of 
fashion, I suppose. I am ashamed to say I have never 
read but one or two of his books.' " 

The most interesting chapter in the volume 
is the one giving a full account (already known 
in part to magazine-readers) of the all-star pre- 
sentation of " The Rivals," ten years ago this 
month. Portraits of the actors and actresses in 
character, with their autographs in facsimile, 
accompany the narrative. The ludicrous pic- 
ture of the author himseK as " David " is the 
only portrait of him that the book contains. 
Many matters throughout the volume are, per- 
haps unavoidably, already familiar to readers of 
Mr. Jefferson's Autobiography. The chapter 
entitled " The Author " is avowedly drawn 
largely from that work, and is somewhat of the 
nature of padding — very readable padding 
though it unquestionably is. In an excellent 
chapter called " Characteristic Days " occurs 



1906.] 



THE DIAI. 



317 



this paragraph on the burning of " Crow's Nest," 
the actor's summer home at Buzzard's Bay : 

" ♦ When I got your letter of sympathy,' he remarked, 
*I said: Of all men, Wilson has lost most by this con- 
flagration in the way of autograph letters, programs, 
and what not, which I intended to send him. When it 
was seen that the house must go,' he continued, ' my 
Cape Cod neighbors bethought them of saving the 
household goods, and rushed for the piano, a rattle-trap 
thing I had long thought of replacing. They made for 
that because it was big and had shiny legs, I suppose, 
and pulled it out on the grass. Much less exertion would 
have saved thousands of dollars' worth of beautiful 
paintings. Nevertheless, I appreciate their intention, 
and am grateful for their efforts.' " 

As the author remarks, " the quiet way in which 
he laughed at the thought of the ' natives ' tug- 
ging away at heavy furniture, while Corots, 
Diazes, Troyons, Daubignj's, and Mauves were 
threatened with destruction, spoke volumes for 
his philosophy that could thus permit him to 
snule in the face of such a loss. Perhaps the 
most i-emarkable thing about it, though, was the 
keen sense of the ridiculous shown. It was alto- 
gether charming." The next year, however, 
1892, " Crow's Nest " was rebuilt, and its o\\Tier 
continued, with the same success as before, to 
play the country gentleman, entertaining his 
friends, as one may infer, with lavish hospitality. 
With a delightfid touch of humor, the author 
i-epresents him as wrestling unsuccessfully (he 
was an unskilful carver) with refractory fowls 
and joints at the head of his own board. A 
fondness for anecdote and reminiscence still 
further delayed the ser\"ing of his guests. On 
one occasion, when he was engaged in the labori- 
ous dismemberment of a duck, while each visitor 
sat in breathless expectation of ha^^ing at any 
moment to catch the bird and return it to the 
platter, he paused to tell the company that he 
was reminded of Bill Nye's observation that in 
amateur carving the gravy seldom matches the 
wall-paper. 

Of more seriously instructive matters, we have 
a good account of the genesis and development 
of the Jeffersonian " Rip van Winkle " and 
** The Rivals," pages of conversation on painting 
and the drama, and every now and then bits of 
the genial actor's philosophy of life and glimpses 
of his simny disposition. A firm belief in a future 
existence to which this is but the merest prelude, 
and at the same time a keen enjojinent of this 
life and a determination to make the most of it, 
are what one must especially admire in this ever- 
active, alertly alive, and infectiously cheerfxd 
veteran of the stage. Ex-President Cleveland 
figures somewhat prominentiy in the book, in 
connection with Jefferson's fishing diversions. 



Just a paragraph from Mr. Cleveland's remin- 
iscences of his holiday companion, contributed 
to the book, must be given here. The incident 
narrated is of the most trivial sort, but is a 
welcome aid to the imagination. 

*» We were fishing for weakfish — called by Buzzard's 
Bay fishermen ' Squeteague.' He [Jefferson] had a 
most exasperating habit of viciously jerking a fish after 
he was fairly hooked and during his struggling efforts 
to resist fatal persuasion boatwards. It looked to me 
like courting failure on the part of the fisherman to 
indulge in these unnecessary twitches. So on one occa- 
sion when he had a fish hooked and was enlivening the 
fight by terrific yanks, I said to him, ' What do you jerk 
him that way for ? ' With an expression that comprises 
really all there is of the story, he turned his face to me 
and said, ' Because he jerked me.' What a trivial thing 
this is to tell, and yet I cannot recall anything that illus- 
trates better the quickness and droUery of his conceits." 

What wiU be new to many readers is the fact 
that Jefferson was so much of a painter that he 
gave two exhibitions of his own work — sixteen 
pictures at the first, fifty-five at the second — at 
the Fisher Galleries in New York, and, what is 
more, actually sold some of his canvases. Con- 
scious that even a great actor's fame is of short 
duration, he longed to create something in this 
other branch of art that should survive him. 
But perhaps, after all, he rested his hopes of 
lasting renown most confidentiy on his one con- 
siderable work of literature, the Autobiography. 

^Ir. Wilson's loving intimacy with his brother 
player (though " father '* would perhaps be the 
better word here) , as well as his familiarity with 
the literatiire, especially the biography, of his 
profession, well qualifies him to produce, as he 
has produced, a pleasing and worthy portrait of 
one whom the theatre-goers of America, En- 
gland, and Australia will long cherish in fond 
remembrance. Percy F. Bicknell. 



The Re-Shapixg of the Oriekt.* 

It is now about two years since an official 
of the Chinese foreign customs service writ- 
ing under the nom de plume of B. L. Putnam 
Weale published his pioneer volvune in the field 
of Far Eastern politics. This work, entitied 
"Manchu and Muscovite," comprised an illu- 
minating, if not altogether novel, exposition 
of Russian power and policy in the disputed 
district of Manchuria. It predicted the war 
which very quickly came, and in general pro- 
phesied pret^ nearly the course of events which 
recent history has actually recorded. On the 

• The Re-Shapixg of the Far East. By B. L. Putnam Weale. 
In two volumes. Illostrated. New York : The Macmillan Co. 



318 



THE DIAL 



[May 16, 



basis of its accuracy and judiciousness, students 
of international relations gladly acclaimed Mr. 
Weale as one of the most keen-sighted and fair- 
minded of the many people who write or have 
written on the affairs of the Orient. When, 
therefore, it was announced several months ago 
that a larger and in many ways more ambitious 
work was forthcoming from his pen, those who 
have a special interest in such subjects looked 
for its appearance with more than ordinary in- 
terest. It was but fair to expect from such a 
writer a first-hand discussion of conditions and 
problems in Eastern Asia surpassing in compre- 
hensiveness, virility, and general excellence, as 
well as in timeliness, all other treatises of its 
character as yet available. It is pleasant to be 
assured, after an examination of the two stout 
volumes just published, that in nearly all essen- 
tial respects confidence has not been misplaced 
and favorable anticipation has been at least 
fairly well justified. " The Re-Shaping of the 
Far East " is by no means a perfect work of its 
kind, but its indisputable merits far outweigh 
the faidts which even the most captious critic 
could ascribe to it. 

The task which Mr. Weale has set himself is 
a stupendous one. It is nothing less than to 
describe the Far East as it had come to be, a 
century or more ago, under the interplay of 
peoples and forces native to it ; to trace the in- 
troduction and growth of foreign, chiefly Euro- 
pean and American, influences ; and, finally, to 
estimate the political, commercial, and social 
effects of these influences, and to forecast certain 
grave changes which they give promise of bring- 
ing about in the not remote future. This being 
its purpose, it must be observed before going 
further that the book suffers to a certain extent 
from the fact that it was written, and unfortu- 
nately sent to press, while the Russo-Japanese 
war was still in progress. While engaged in its 
preparation, Mr. Weale was laboring under the 
impression that that conflict would be waged to 
the bitter end, — that it would be prolonged 
indefinitely, until one of the contestants should be 
compelled to abandon it from sheer exhaustion. 
This misjudgment is not to be imputed to him 
as evidence of serious disqualification as an 
observer, for everybody knows that the early 
conclusion of peace came about in a whoUy unan- 
ticipated manner, and that many another expert 
on the field of hostilities held the same opinion. 
But, obviously, a book on the re-shaping of the 
Orient must sacrifice an appreciable measure of 
value to the reader of to-day by stopping short 
of the renewal of the Anglo- Japanese Alliance, 



the fijial and complete defeat of the Russians on 
land and sea, and the negotiation and ratifica- 
tion of the Peace of Portsmouth. Events now 
move so rapidly in the Far East that if one were 
always to await the outcome of situations there 
it is to be feared that he would never have a 
chance to write at all ; at the same time, every 
reader of Mr. Weale's book, and no doubt the 
author himself, cannot but regret that its pub- 
lication was not held back a bare six months. 
In fairness it ought to be said that even in the 
light of conditions now existing the bulk of it 
would call for comparatively little modifica- 
tion ; but of course such matters as the future 
of British influence in the Orient, the destiny 
of Korea and Manchuria, and the probabili- 
ties of Russian aggression on the northwest 
frontier of China, could be dealt with in a far 
more satisfactory fashion now that the war is 
ended than while its outcome was still proble- 
matical. 

Taken as a whole, Mr. Weale's work may 
be regarded as essentially a " reading journey " 
through the Orient, particularly the regions 
north of the Yangtsze, with occasional pauses 
for the introduction of more or less elaborate 
discussions of important topics. Of the dozen 
or more chapters taken up with a narrative of 
the hypothetical journey on which the reader is 
conducted, and with descriptions of people en- 
countered and places visited, two are devoted to 
the ascent of the Yangtsze from Shanghai to 
Hankow, three to the trip by rail and cart from 
Hankow to Peking, and four to a tour from 
Peking by way of Tientsin, across the Gulf of 
Pechili, past Chefoo and aroimd the Shantimg 
coast to the little " Kaiser-stadt " of Tsingtao, 
and thence over the German railway to the 
Shantung capital, Chinanfu. Then we are taken 
to Japan for a journey by rail (one chapter) 
from Nagasaki to Tokyo in war-time. Finally, 
returning to the continent, we find ourselves in 
Korea, and three chapters more carry us from 
Fusan, in the " heel of the boot," to the " panto- 
mime " capital, Seoul. These narrative chap- 
ters are not consecutive, however, and though 
as a rule delightfully written and abounding in 
information, they are manifestly designed mainly 
to keep up interest, — in the words of the author, 
" to supply the necessary atmosphere." The 
reader will hardly agree that the travels recorded 
in them are " unimportant," as Mr. Weale mod- 
estly affirms in his Preface, — unless, perchance, 
he is hurried, and dislikes the somewhat discur- 
sive character which they impart to the book. 
But it is quite possible to omit their story and yet 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



319 



get the essential things which the author has to 
say about Far Eastern conditions and prospects. 
The wealth of material contained in the twenty 
or more chapters composing the real body of ]VIr. 
Weale's work defies analysis or even adequate 
description within brief space. The most im- 
portant topics discussed at length (aside from 
historical matters) are railways as political 
weapons in the Orient, the foreign dominance 
in Peking, the character of the present Chinese 
government, the foreign services of China, Ger- 
man operations and ambitions in China, Anglo- 
Japanese relations, Japanese and non-Japanese 
interests in Korea, the attitude of Oriental 
governments and peoples toward the late war, 
Russo-Chinese and Chino-Japanese relations, 
Franco-Belgian scheming in the Far East, the 
attitude of the United States toward Oriental 
problems, and the re-arming and general rehab- 
ilitation of China. 

Mr. Weale's fundamental conception is that 
the Far East is in a state of unstable equilibrium, 
and ^t11 so continue for a long time to come, 
quite irrespective of the results of the war which 
was in progress as he wrote, or of any similar 
future contest which now seems at all possible. 
With unqualified emphasis he repudiates the 
notion that the defeat of Russia will mean that 
everything will be quiet in the Far East for 
decades to come, without any other work being 
necessary than that which may be accomplished 
by the victorious Japanese armies. From his 
point of view, the war which the world has lately 
followed with so much interest is to be regarded 
as not in any sense a final struggle over the issues 
involved, but rather a mere episode, likely to 
have only temporary effects, and, in one form 
or another, to be repeated many times before 
international concord shall become the normal 
condition in the Orient. This may not be an 
altogether agreeable opinion, but it is one which 
many carefid students besides Mr. Weale have 
been forced to adopt, and on the whole it must 
be admitted that existing conditions give it 
good warrant. So far as occasions for dispute, 
rivalry, and open conflict are concerned, the 
recent war certainly leaves the situation in all 
essential respects about as bad as before. All 
the old elements remain, — the same nationali- 
ties, the same jealotisies, the same suspicions, 
even the same old pledges concerning the evacu- 
ation and garrisoning of Manchuria. The Far 
Eastern Question has lost not a whit of its capac- 
ity for inducing international friction. 

As Mr. Weale clearly points out, this unset- 
tlement of the Orient is an inevitable consequence 



of the helplessness and inunobility of China. A 
condition of permanent amity and stability is to 
be expected only when China shall have become 
a reaUy modernized nation, able and determined 
to manage her own affairs without any interposi- 
tion on the part of foreign powers. Obviously 
this consummation is yet a good way off, though 
the signs of its approach are now rapidly in- 
creasing. In many respects the most satisfactory 
portions of Mr. Weale's book are those which 
have to do with the great awakening now indis- 
putably in progress in the empire of the Celes- 
tials. Particular stress is laid on the efforts at 
present being made to provide the nation, for 
the first time in its history, with a thoroughly 
organized and disciplined army. Two years ago 
the Chinese army nimibered 100,000 men ; to- 
day it numbers just twice as many ; and when 
the plans which have lately been determined 
upon shall have been realized, its fighting 
strength will be 1,250,000. General YinTchang, 
who will presently return to Peking from Berlin 
where he has been studying the greatest military 
machine known to modem times, and who wiU 
have supreme charge of the upbuilding of the 
new army, declares that his nation proposes no 
longer to depend for her territorial integrity 
upon the good graces of foreign powers, and that 
it is her firm purpose henceforth to conunand 
respect by being in a position to enforce it. It is 
the belief of Mr. Weale that the arming of China 
is to be no mere fiction, but a bitter reality with 
which other nations will shortly be compelled 
to reckon. On this point he writes as follows : 
" During a voyage of at least 2,500 miles through a 
number of provinces I was careful to pay special atten- 
tion to the military question and to engage every Chinese 
officer and man time would permit in conversation. I 
was thus able to convince myself amply of several im- 
portant things, chief of which is the following : that 
every Chinese commander and soldier has at last real- 
ized that rifles and ammunition must be properly kept, 
that drill must be constant, that discipline must be very 
strict, and that the art of war must be studied day and 
night before troops can dare to face modem armies. 
Everywhere I found clean rifles and proper ammuni- 
tion, suitable uniforms and splendid-looking men housed 
in good, modem barracks. In his summer straw hat 
and imitation khaki clothing, or in his winter turban of 
sombre black and tight-fitting timic and loose trousers, 
the modem Chinese soldier presents a most business- 
like and resolute appearance, and when a battalion of 
such fellows click through their drill, the immense g^ulf 
separating them from the former eflFete creatures who, 
miserably paid and entirely under-fed, masqueraded as 
serious soldiery, is clearly apparent. And whilst the 
ordinary man all over the world still pictures the Chinese 
soldier as this effete and worthless coolie, the fact is 
becoming more and more clear to European military 
agents in China that the Chinaman is not only not effete 
and worthless but that he is being developed into the 



320 



THE DIAL 



[May 16, 



most formidable soldier on the contment of Asia. Con- 
temptuous of death, physically far superior to the 
Japanese, with an immense pride of race and a quick- 
ness and an ingenuity which far eclipse that of all other 
Eastern races, it requires but good leaders and a careful 
selection from the great masses of men available to 
evolve regiments, divisions, and army corps, which, 
conscious of their strength, will defy the best troops of 
Europe. . . . China and her swarming millions, who 
now number nearly ten times the population of Japan, 
is and will be to the Continent of Asia what Russia is 
and will be to the Continent of Europe. Russia has 
temporarily failed because her imagination — that im- 
mense and wonderful imagination — has been too big 
for her. China has failed often, too, for other reasons. 
But, failures or no failures, considered in its broadest 
aspect, the Chinese are destined to be one of the three 
great nationalities of the world." 

The operation of foreign influences in China 
is discussed by Mr. Weale at great length, but, 
unfortunately, in a spirit so narrow and inhos- 
pitable that the conclusions at which he arrives 
are often sadly vitiated by his ill-chosen point of 
view. Mr. Weale is an Englishman to the core, 
and he writes with little sympathy for anything 
that is not English. The burden of his book is 
a lamentation at the recent weakness and ineffi- 
ciency of English diplomacy in the Orient and 
a solemn call to firmer policies and bolder meth- 
ods. He coolly assumes that England has a 
pecvdiar mission in the East, — a mission which, 
sad to relate, she has not recently been fulfilling 
as she should, but which, none the less, every 
other power is bound in honor to respect and in 
no wise hinder. On this theory, quite naturally, 
the Germans, the French, the Belgians, the 
Russians, and even the Americans, come in for 
more or less severe castigation. The remarkable 
achievements of the Germans in Shantung and 
the Yangtsze valley form a fascinating chapter 
in recent Far Eastern history, simply as an ex- 
ample of daring national enterprise. One may 
not approve of what has been done, but he must 
at least lament that Mr. Weale's anti-German 
proclivities have caused him to lose a splendid 
opportimity to give the world a full and impre- 
judiced account of this subject. In a similar 
way, the part which the United States has taken 
in the development of the Orient is very inade- 
quately presented, if not actually perverted. 
The author plainly proposes to heap ridicide 
upon American influence and policies in China, 
but the attempt falls rather flat. That there 
have been errors, nobody doubts ; and that 
American diplomats and consuls in the Far East 
have not always been what might be desired, 
everybody admits ; but that the same thing 
can be said of even the English, is a fact equally 
obvious. 



So far as subject-matter is concerned, then, 
Mr. Weale's book is of very uneven value. The 
portions which are least adequate are as a rule 
those which deal with the topics of largest im- 
portance. As a record of travel, it is very good 
indeed ; as a summary of historical develop- 
ments, it is even better ; but as a presentation 
of actual existing conditions and problems, it 
is in places all but an utter failure, — and 
owing entirely, as has been suggested, not to the 
author's lack of information, but to his prejudice 
and partisanship. The work is distinctly worth 
while, but it might easily have been made more 
valuable than it is. At the very least, it might 
have been wi'itten with a little more regard for 
considerations of style. The narrative chapters 
not infrequently fall into a strain quite a bit 
more gossipy, even slangy, than is defensible in 
a book of such solid character. The careful 
reader will often be annoyed by evidences of 
hasty preparation and inadequate revision. The 
work of the proofreader has likewise been far 
from perfect. There are curious errors in the 
printing of titles and sub-titles (as on pages 45 
and 334 of Volume I.), where of all places one 
woiUd expect absolute correctness. The punctu- 
ation, too, aboimds in anomalies, for which 
presumably the author is responsible. On the 
other hand, mention should not fail to be made 
of the abundant and uniforndy excellent illus- 
trations with which the book is embellished ; also 
of the elaborate appendix containing a dozen or 
more useful documents relating to Far Eastern 



aifairs since 1895. 



Frederic Austin Ogg. 



Walpole Letters, Old axd New.* 

Mrs. Paget Toynbee's new edition of Wal- 
pole's letters runs to sixteen handsome volumes ; 
and contains over three thousand letters, about 
a hundred of which are now printed for the first 
time. Many of the old letters are here given in 
fuller form than they had in previous editions ; 
and there is evidence on every hand that the 
editor has flinched from none of that almost 
painful assiduity in research and collation which 
we now exact of all comers. On the whole, her 
text would seem to be more accurate and more 
nearly intact than any of its predecessors. In 
one respect, however, the editorial method must 
be said to have been regTcttably arbitrary, not 

*The Letters of Horace Walpole. Edited by Mrs. Paget 
Toynbee. In sixteen volumes. Illustrated in photogravure. 
New York : Oxford University Press. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL. 



321 



to say unscrupulous. It would not be true to 
say that Mrs. Paget Toynbee has bowdlerized 
Walpole. One might find ground of quarrel 
that she attempts no consistent expurgation. 
She has allowed very many passages to stand 
which are not to be recommended to the young 
person or easily stomached by the old one who 
wishes to mend his author to fit his individual 
sense of propriety. Two safe courses woidd 
seem to be open to the editor of a writer like 
Walpole : to clip, amend, and otherwise pretty 
frankly manipulate him for " popular " use : or 
to take him as he comes and present him as he 
was, without fear or favor, without any sort of 
sense of personal responsibility for him. It is 
qvute clear that in her present attempt to pro- 
duce something approaching a " final " edition 
of Walpole, — a certainly elaborate edition cal- 
culated to take its place with some state upon 
other than " popular ' * shelves, — the editor 
should have taken the latter course. As a mat- 
ter of fact, many passages have been omitted 
from the earlier letters as " unfit for publica- 
tion." These omissions have all been scru- 
pulously indicated in the footnotes ; but the 
reader is left with an uneasy sense of incom- 
pleteness. It woidd certainly be more com- 
fortable for persons of delicacy if all gifted 
tongues and pens had from the beginning of 
things been untainted with double meanings, 
not to say such frank indecencies as our eight- 
eenth century letter-writer was capable of. 
One may reasonably contend that a world which 
we shoidd like to see moral, or proper, does not 
need to have preserved for it the passing leers 
and innuendoes of a defrmct man about town. 
But there is a special reason why, since the 
edition lays claim to authority, most of Mrs. 
Paget To}Tibee's omissions must be deplored. 
They occur in the important correspondence 
with Horace Mann. This cori'espondence Wal- 
pole himself transcribed with a direct view to 
its publication. He allowed the passages in 
question to stand, and thus, however mistakenly, 
gave them his authority. The original manu- 
script still exists, and it is hardly to be doubted 
that sooner or later the passages in question 
will take their place in some version which, other 
things heing equal, will supplant ^Irs. Paget 
Toynbee's. For the moment she may be excus- 
able in preferring to connect her name with a 
more presentable Walpole : but Walpole was not 
always presentable according to modern stand- 
ards of propriety, and it is by his personal 
standard, like that of a Montaigne, a Pepys, or a 
Rousseau, that we shall in the end wish to judge 



him. We resent the decision of any editor as 
to what is "fit for publication." A certain 
piquant edge is given to our distrust of the 
present editor's judgment by the retention of 
>'arious passages in letters from Walpole to — 
of all conceivable persons — Miss Hannah More. 

To read with some consecutiveness, let us not 
say all, but many of these old letters, is to ask 
oneself wherein their charm lies, what has kept 
them alive so long. Their writer was neither 
a very noble nor a very amiable character. In 
youth he was everything offensive suggested by 
the eighteenth century label " Wit." He was 
a popinjay, a fopling, an insincere beau, a blase 
man about town ; in middle life he remained a 
superannuated sophomore ; in age even he did 
not cease to ogle or to sneer. He had the con- 
ceit of a Montaigne or a Pepys without their 
healthy frdl-blooded joy in being alive. He was, 
in short, by his own laborious testimony, very 
much an ass. Yet he did not err in fancying 
that he would be remembered and read not un- 
gratefidly by posterity. For better as well as 
for worse he was that antiquated phenomenon, 
a Wit. Is his esprit artificially cvdtivated under 
glass ? It lives. Is his man-of-the-worldliness 
now become a somewhat discredited exhibit? 
We still regard it with some attention. 

To the student of eighteenth century society 
Walpole is of course in^'aluable. Here is gossip 
concerning: how many of those notabilities of 
whom we know something from Pope, from Bos- 
well, or from Fanny Bumey. Here are other 
touches which reveal to us the common point of 
view, or the fashionable point of view, in con- 
nection with all sorts of matters, from small-pox 
to the French Revolution, from Shakespeare to 
Loo. Here is gossip of the royalties, properly 
obscure as to nomenclature, — hints about the 
latest court scandals, — description of the most 
fashionable routs, of executions at Tyburn ; here 
is a slighting allusion to Shakespeare, and quaint 
mention of Pepys, not yet made famous through 
the publication of the Diary, as " the Secretary 
of the Admiralty," and of Charlotte Corday as 
" the woman who stabbed Marat." Here, too, 
are not a few excellent criticisms of contemporary 
work, such as this on Mme. D'Arblay's " Ca- 
milla ': " I will only reply by a word or two to 
the question you seem to ask ; how I like ' Ca- 
milla ' ? I do not care to say how little. Alas I 
she has reversed experience, which I have long 
thought reverses its own utility by coming at the 
wrons: end of our life when we do not x^-ant it. 
This author knew the world and penetrated 
characters before she had stepped over the thresh- 



322 



THE DIAL 



[May 16, 



old ; and now she has seen so much of it, she has 
little or no insight at all : perhaps she appre- 
hended having seen too much, and kept the bags 
of foul air that she brought from the Cave of 
Tempests too closely tied." This is a plain and 
summary way of speech, which, with true cour- 
tesy, he avoids uttering to Dr. Burney, who 
makes fond inquiry of him upon the same head. 
And indeed Walpole is not so bad as, in his 
self-conscious youth and prime, he chose to paint 
himself. Steadily he mellows and softens with 
increasing years ; gradually the mask of cynicism 
slips away from him ; gradually the hard outline 
of his self-absorption is modified. The last of 
these volmnes, containing letters written during 
the decade by which he survived the three score 
and ten years, are those which come nearest 
attaching one personally to Walpole, by a tie 
comparable to that which binds one to Gray or 
Cowper. With all their ancient gallantries and 
valetudinarian complaints, they ring truer, are 
pleasanter to re-read, than the artful records of 
his earlier and sprightlier pen. 

H. W. BOYNTON. 



A Commercial, Traveller ix the LiAnd 

OF PiZARRO.* 

"The Isthmian Canal and the West Coast Coun- 
tries of South America " is the subject of the very 
latest volume added to our library of South American 
travel. The author, Mr. C. M. Pepper, is announced 
as a " newspaper man " and a member of the " per- 
manent Pan-American railway committee"; he is 
evidently a traveller of experience, he is a competent 
observer, and in this fine volume has made skilful 
and by no means tedious use of the latest available 
statistics. As a result we have an unusual book. 
While the style is that of the "newspaper man," 
rather cursory and with no pretence to grace, the 
subject-matter is interesting both for what the author 
experiences and for the evident sincerity with which 
he presents his view. We have to do with a real 
traveller, who goes with a purpose, who sees the 
regions he describes and sees them in an interesting 
way ; his observations are accurate, and his statistics 
are no more extended than is essential to the 
argument. 

Our author sets out to demonstrate the effect which 
the Isthmian canal is having, and is likely to have, 
upon the commercial relations of the South American 
republics. The book is really an argument for the 
speedy construction of the great canal, and the 
attempt is to show that, once this bit of interoceanic 

•Panama to Patagonia. The Isthmian Canal and the West 
Coast of South America. By Charles M. Pepper. With maps 
and illustrations. Chicago: A. C. McClurg & Co. 



highway is in operation, all the tides of South Ameri- 
can commerce will set our way. Brazil, forsooth, 
may still in that day have Rio Janeiro and Para, 
and a few other cities of the eastern coast may still 
be allowed a place on the map, to carry on dealings 
with England and Germany as heretofore ; but the 
vast bulk of South American commerce must pres- 
ently flow westward and northward, not from the 
coast alone of Chile and Peru, but from Ai-gentina 
and the Amazons, and from many an unsuspected 
and unheard-of valley in the Andes and the Cordil- 
leras, to New Orleans and New York, thence to be 
redistributed, if need be, to the waiting shores of 
Europe. 

It must be confessed that Mr. Pepper, by his 
energy, enthusiasm, and industiy, has gone far to 
establish his contention. What with shortened sea- 
routes, the impulse of new enterprise, the activity of 
the American market, the increasing demand in the 
United States for South American rubber, and above 
all, the rapid extension of railway service between 
all the states in question, it does seem as if all things 
American were presently " coming our way." 

It will surprise most readers, we think, to learn 
that the great rivers of South America, the forks and 
tributaries of the Amazon, are navigable for large 
steamers to within a few hundred ( actually less than 
three hundred) miles of the Pacific Ocean I It is as 
if one could enter the Mississippi and sail to the 
Humboldt Basin ! Of course, in the Andes railways 
may not follow altogether the shortest trails ; but the 
railway necessary to connect the Peruvian port of 
Paita with Bellenista on the Maranon, a branch of 
the Amazon, will be only three hundred and ten miles 
in length, and sixty miles are already in operation. 
From Bellenista to the falls of Monserriche, on the 
same river, is less than one hundred miles, and there 
the traveller meets steamers from the Atlantic sea- 
board. Over such a situation and such a prospect, 
the Isthmian canal once built, our traveller grows 
naturally enthusiastic ; he would reverse the centu- 
ries, almost the current of the rivers ; the whole tide 
of Amazonian commerce, with all the untold wealth 
of the Brazilian forests, shall flow westward to Bal- 
boa's sea, and enter the trade channels of the world 
by the gates of Panama. 

But Paita is not the only port of vantage. There 
is Callao ; only two hundred and twenty-five miles 
of difficult railway-building is needed to bring Callao 
in touch with the flood-plains of Brazil. In similar 
fashion, every South American port on the Pacific 
coast is shown to have a prospect and a promise. 
Guayaquil is already the exit of Ecuador, with 
a narrow-guage road already " creeping " toward 
Quito. This, once arrived, will of course bring 
westward all the commerce of the little republic. 
Peruvian Arica is the port for imprisoned Bolivia, 
and is distant only a little more than three hundred 
miles from La Paz, the capital of the mountain 
commonwealth. In the mountains of Bolivia lie 
waiting for exit every species of mineral wealth, in 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



323 



her high valleys every opportunity for profitable 
agriculture ; once the canal is open, railways will 
bring the wealth of Bolivia to the sea and thence 
by Panama to the shores of the United States. Nor 
is this all. Valparaiso, now fabulously rich in the 
sale of its nitrates, the accumulations of geological 
ages, will no doubt hasten to bring its tribute to our 
doors ; and, better. aU the products of the wide plains 
of Argentina, soon to be farmed like the prairies of 
Iowa and Illinois, must seek an outlet westward 
along railways even now building, and pour through 
the capital of Chile. 

Such is the argument of the volume. Its twenty- 
two chapters exhibit no arrangement, follow no par- 
ticular sequence ; the reader may essay any one of 
them, and find a discussion of some South American 
problem, — but always from the isthmian view-point, 
and everj' chapter closes in a reference to the great 
canal. 

But because we have to deal with commerce and 
trade, it must by no means be inferred that we have 
time for nothing else. Our traveller is a traveller, 
and he takes the reader along comfortably, and has 
often time to stop and show him the exquisite beauty 
of some sheltered Andean valley, or the glittering 
summits of eternal snow where these limit some 
Peruvian or Bolivian landscape. With him, we listen 
to rushing mountain torrents or cross the almost im- 
passable mountain deserts. Sometimes he takes us 
with him to visit his friends, and we catch pleasant 
glimpses of the cosmopolitan social life that domi- 
nates the far-off southern capitals. Betimes socio- 
logical problems come to view. We walk among the 
*'cholos," we see the hard conditions of the poor in 
Valparaiso, — no vale of paradise, alas I for thou- 
sands of its people. Again, we watch the formal 
processions of the church, or hear of the conduct of 
elections, where open fraud determines the event 
with a completeness that would make our most ex- 
pert political manipulator faint for astonishment. 

But for all the order and disorder of our South 
American neighbors, a better day is dawning. They 
are doing great things for themselves. Long ener- 
vated by too easily acquired wealth, the sale of their 
natural resources, they now look forward to per- 
manent social and political relations and to stable 
industries. For a prime stimulus to effort, and for 
a perpetual determinant in all the future weal of 
millions of South American people, intelligent men 
in ever\' South American republic now look to the 
completion of the Panama canal. 

The book before us will be of value to every 
American who would keep in touch with our own 
commercial development ; nor less does it deserve a 
place in the alcove devoted to books of travel. It 
is well-printed, and has many interesting half-tone 
illustrations. The maps, while helpful, are not as 
good by any means as the subject deserves. They 
appear to be copies, in some cases at least, and the 
names they bear are not infrequentiy illegible. 

Thomas H. Macbride. 



The Basis of Christiaxtty.* 



The motive ' of Professor Pfleiderer's book on 
" Christian Origins " is best described in his own 
words : 

" The viewpoint from which the origin of Christianity is 
herein described is pvrdy historical. ... It lies in the nature 
of things that such a porely historical description of the ori- 
gin of our religion will differ vastly and in many ways from 
the traditional Church presentation. Hence, this book has 
not been written for snch readers as feel satisfied by the tra- 
ditional chorch-f^th. It may hnrt t^eir feelings eanly, and 
confnse them in their convictions ; I wonld feel sorry for that, 
becanse I cherish a respect for every honest faith. But I 
know that in all classes and circles of society to-day there are 
many men and women who have entirely ontgrown the tra- 
ditional church-faith and who are possessed of an urgent 
desire to learn what is to be thought, from the standpoint of 
modem science, concerning the origin of this faith and con- 
cerning the eternal and temporal in it. To go out toward 
snch truth-teekers is a dnty which the trained representative 
of science dare not shirk.'' 

The work is condensed and devoid of technicalities, 
and has been rendered into excellent English, Its 
author is a distinguished and highly competent 
scholar, who has devoted many years to the subject. 
So far as any discussion of such intricate and obscure 
matters can be said to have authority. Dr. Pfleiderer's 
book may be admitted to possess that attribute. It 
will come as a revelation to many whose ideas have 
been completely muddled by the combination of 
ignorant and evasive teaching current to-day, and 
the prediction may be ventured that it will do much 
more, in the long run, to fortify religion than to de- 
stroy it. It is impossible to give any useful summary 
in this place. It may suffice to record the feeling 
that just as evolution, properly understood, is a far 
grander idea than that of arbitrary creation, so 
the beginnings of Christianity', in their true histori- 
cal setting, loom up in such a way as to make the 
orthodox account almost colorless by comparison. 
Such a statement will seem to many persons extrava- 
gant in the highest degree, if they have never tried 
to understand the historical point of view ; but it is 
hard to beb'eve that they can come to a complete 
appreciation of the latter without acknowledging the 
truth of the former. If this is the case, such work 
as Dr. Pfleiderer's rescues for us the most precious 
heritage of mankind, which is in danger of being dis- 
carded because a stupid and intellectually dishonest 
generation will not separate it from the obsolete 
elements with which it has been mixed. Daily and 
hourly, people are abandoning religious ideals or the 
young are failing to acquire them, because they are 
accompanied by tenets which cannot stand the test 
of criticism. These do not know, and there are few to 
tell them, that the story of Jesus means more, not 
less, than it did before, since it is the story of what 
man has done and been, not of the arbitrary and 
unconditioned acts of a god. Scanty as are the 
authentic details concerning the life and work of 

• Chkistian Obigiss. By Otto Pfleiderer. Translated from 
the German by Daniel A. Huebsch. Xew York: B. W. Huebsch. 

The Fixauty of the Chbistian Reugion. By George Bur- 
man Foster. Chicago : University of Chicago Press. 



324 



THE DIAL 



[May 16, 



Jesus, his teachings have come down through the ages, 
in spite of misunderstanding and misrepresentation. 
Shorn of recognizably spurious elements, they shine 
out more clearly than ever before, and one might 
well think they have now a chance to be accepted at 
their face-value. Are they thereby robbed of that 
mystery which religion demands ? Yes, in one sense ; 
but no, in another and better one ; for in them we 
find the greatest of all mysteries, the aspiration of 
the human soul to God. 

Dr. Pfleiderer takes the trouble to remark, in his 
preface, that no historical writer considers himself 
infallible, and least of all one who deals with such 
difficult problems as those of early Christianity. In 
spite of this, he shows more assurance in treating 
some of the knotty points than the facts possibly 
warrant. There is perhaps no harm in this, if the 
reader remembers the prefatory caution ; but in deal- 
ing with the resurrection story in particular, there 
seems to be a tendency to explain things away too 
completely. Thus : 

" For the sake of this popular need of concrete proofs, the 
narrator did not avoid the contradiction that the resurrected 
body displayed its earthly materiality by the touching and 
the eating, while, on the other hand, his sudden appearance, 
disappearance and ascension to heaven proved its supermun- 
dane, ethereal nature. . . . For historical investigators, such 
contradictions are imerring signs that they are dealing, not 
with tradition based on any kind of recollection, not with 
naive legend, but with a secondary form of legend, influenced 
by apologetic considerations" (p. 231). 

Now why are they unerring signs of the kind indi- 
cated? I have re-read the whole account with a 
mind as open as possible, and I must say that the 
impression it leaves is simply this : that Jesus sur- 
vived the cross, and that things occurred very much 
as narrated, — except, of course, the ascension, which, 
it will be noted, breaks abruptly into an otherwise 
logical narrative. One would certainly hesitate to 
insist upon this or any other special interpretation ; 
but it seems at least probable that the story is based 
on more than apologetic fabrications and subjective 
hallucinations. 

In dealing with Peter's answer to Jesus on the road 
to Caesarea, "Thou art the Christ," Dr. Pfleiderer 
remarks : 

" But this circumstance, that the scene of Caesarea contra- 
dicts the other presupposition of the gospels so crassly, is a 
strong proof in favor of the historic character of Peter's 
answer ; the distinct statement of time and place is also in 
its favor." 

Why not apply the same argument to the resurrec- 
tion story? 

Professor Foster's book on " The Finality of the 
Christian Religion " is a much larger and more elab- 
orate work, intended for professional theologians 
rather than for the general public. A second vol- 
ume, increasingly constructive in character, is prom- 
ised in the near future. In many respects, this work 
is what might result from a combination of Sabatier's 
"Religions of Authority and the Religion of the 
Spirit " and Pfleiderer's volume just noticed, — not, 
of course, without much else of an illuminating and 



interesting nature. The author explains that the 
book was written before that of Sabatier appeared ;. 
while as for the portion dealing with the history of 
Christianity, it is admittedly a compilation, princi- 
pally from Wernle and Bousset. The author, in his 
preface, thus explains his attitude: 

" The book is a mirror of the development of the author's 
own experience — a development, moreover, which has not 
yet come to a close ; a fact which is also mirrored in the 
book. He believes that a multitude of thoughtful men and 
women are passing through an experience similar to his own ; 
and that a greater multitude will travel, with bleeding feet, 
the same via dolorosa to-morrow and the day after. It is a 
pathetic and tragic, or inspiring and illuminating, spectacle, 
according as one looks at it. Be that as it may, to all such 
the author offers himself as a fellow-pilgrim, not without 
some hope that they may be a little less lonely for his com- 
radeship, a little less bewUdered for his guidance, and a little 
less sorrowful and discouraged for his own joy and hope. 
At all events, he has said what he sees, as was his duty, in a 
straightforward way, obedient to Robert Browning's advice : 
' Preach your truth ; then let it work.' " 

As a perfectly honest and courageous presentation 
of Christianity, in the light of the most recent infor- 
mation as to physical facts, and the most earnest 
thought as to spiritual matters. Professor Foster's 
volume cannot fail to have a great and beneficial 
influence. If it is not in any sense unique, but is 
rather a sign of the times, its significance is thereby 
increased more than diminished. It has naturally 
been criticized by those of the old school, and prob- 
ably no one regrets more than the author the mental 
sufEering it is likely to occasion ; but no one sees 
more clearly than he does that all this is necessary 
and inevitable, for the sake of religion itself. Indeed^ 
it would ill befit a follower of Christ, of all people, 
to be afraid of new truth. 

From the standpoint of a layman, I must confess 
that the book seems to me too much elaborated in 
many places. The individual sentences are clear, 
but arguments are carried so far, and fortified by 
such a multitude of considerations, that one is in 
danger at times of losing sight of the point. The 
style is much more like that which we are prone 
to regard as " made in Germany " than that of Dr» 
Pfleiderer's book, which did really come from thence. 
For my own use, I have underlined in red a large 
number of the most significant paragraphs and sen- 
tences, and I find this a distinct help ; perhaps in 
another edition italics might serve the same purpose. 

T. D. A. COCKERELL. 



A CORRESPONDENT in Tokyo sends us the following 
item from the " Japan Mail " : " The translation of Mil- 
ton's ' Paradise Lost ' by Mr. Tsuchii Bansui, of the Sec- 
ond High School, began to appear in the January Taiyo. 
. . . Mr. Tsuchii's rendering of some of the finer pas- 
sages seems to us to show that he has thoroughly under- 
stood them and entered into their spirit. Mr. Tsuchii 
has made a special study of poetry for many years past 
and it may confidently be predicted that this translation 
of his will take precedence of all the renderings of 
Milton's sublimest poem which have appeared m Japan. 
It will doubtless be published in book form when the 
whole poem has been translated." 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



325 



Recext English Poetry.* 



When Mr. Thomas Hardy puhlished the first sec- 
tion of " The Dynasts," he warned his public that 
the rest of the work might never see the light. Ap- 
parently, the reception given to that experimental 
publication has been of an encouraging nature, for 
we now have the second section of this colossal and 
deeply-moving work, and may reasonably hope for 
the third section needed in order to complete it. The 
six acts and forty-three scenes of the instalment here 
given us begin just before the battle of .Jena and end 
with Napoleon's crushing defeat in the Peninsula. 
Wagram and Walcheren are intermediate episodes, 
and an element of quasi-private interest is provided 
by the scenes which lead to the divorce of .Josephine 
and the subsequent Austrian marriage. As before, 
we have again the rapid shifting of action, the pano- 
ramic stage-setting, and the supernatural apparatus 
that proved so bewilderingly impressive when we 
first made their acquaintance. The author thinks 
nothing of a jump from Coruiia to Vienna, or of a 
scene that requires us to take in at one glance both 
Ijondon and Paris, and the intervening leagues of 
land and sea. Nor does he hesitate, when human 
speech seems inadequate, to invoke the hosts of 
'' phantom intelligences " created by his cosmic 
imagination, and to record theu- comment — pitiful, 
sinister, and ironic — upon the actions of the human 
puppets whose antics they view from their serene 
point of vantage. It is to the utterances of these 
ethereal beings that we must look for whatever of 
poetry there may be found in this dramatic pageant. 
The unfortunate Walcheren expedition inspires the 
finest poetical outburst of any length to be found 
within the volume. It is the following Chorus of 
Pities, which we are to take as echoing the plaint of 
the stricken English soldiery, and to think of as sung 
to aerial music : 

" We who withstood the blasting blaze of war 
When marshalled by the gallant Moore awhile, 
Beheld the grazing death-bolt with a smile, 
Closed combat edge to edge and bore to bore, 
Now rot upon this Isle I 

•The Dynasts. A Drama of the Napoleonic Wars. By 
Thomas Hardy. Part Second. New York : The Macmillan Co. 

Nebo. By Stephen Phillips. New York : The Macmillan Co. 

Selections from the Poetey op John Payne. Made by 
Tracy and Lucy Robinson. New York : John Lane Co. 

New Collected Rhymes. By Andrew Lan^. New York: 
Lon^nnans, Green, & Co. 

Poems of the Seen and the Unseen. By Charles Witham 
Herbert. Oxford: B. H. Blackwell. 

Poems of Love and Natuke. By Leonard A. Rickett. New 
York : Longmans, Green, & Co. 

The Last Poems of Richard Watson Dixon, D.D. New 
York : Henry Frowde. 

Love's Testament. A Sonnet-Sequence. By G. Constant 
Lounsbery. New York : John Lane Co. 

The Tbee of Knowledge. By Mary A. M. Marks. London : 
David Nutt. 

The Foub Winds of Eihinn. Poems by Ethna Carbery 
(Anna McManus). New York: Funk & Wagnalls Co. 

The Three REStrRRECTioNS and the Triumph of Maeve. 
By Eva Gore-Booth. New York : Longmans, Green, & Co. 



" The ever wan morass, the dnne, the blear 
Sandweed, and tepid pool, and putrid smell. 
Emaciate purpose to a fractions fear, 
Beckon the body to its last low cell — 
A chink no chart will tell. 

" O ancient Delta, where the f en-lighta flit ! 
Ignoble sediment of loftier lands, 
Thy humour clings about our hearts and hands 
And solves us to its softness, till we sit 
As we were part of it. 

" Such force as fever leaves is maddened now, 
With tidings trickling in from day to day 
Of others' difEering fortunes, wording how 
They yield their lives to baulk a tyrant's sway — 
Yielded not vainly, they ! 

" In champaign green and purple, far and near, 
In town and thorpe where quiet spire-cocks turn. 
Through vales, by rocks, beside the brooding bum 
Echoes the aggressor's arrogant career, 
And we bent pithless here ! 

" Here, where each creeping day the creeping file 
Draws past with shouldered comrades score on score. 
Bearing them to their lightless last asile. 
Where weary wave-wails from the clammy shore 
Will reach their ears no more. 

" We might have fought, and had we died, died well, 
Even if in dynasts' discords not our own ; 
Our death-spot some sad haunter might have shown. 
Some tongue have asked our sires or sons to tell 
The tale of how we fell. 

" But such bechanced not. Like the mist we fade. 
No lustrous lines engrave in story we. 
Our country's chiefs, for their own fames afraid. 
Will leave our names and fates by this pale sea 
To perish silently ! " 

To this chorus the Spirit of the Years replies : 

" Why must ye echo as mechanic mimes 
These mortal minions' bootless cadences, 
Played on the stops of their anatomy 
As is the mewling music on the strings 
Of yonder ship-masts by the unweeting wind. 
Or the frail tune upon this withering sedge 
That holds its papery blades against the gale ? 
— Men pass to dark corruption, at the best. 
Ere I can count five score : these why not now ? — « 
The Immanent Shaper builds Its beings so 
Whether ye sigh their sighs with them or no I " 

And for a stage direction, to close the scene, we read 
that '' the night fog enwraps the isle and the dying 
English army." This is a grim sort of poetry, but 
its impressiveness is unquestionable. The concep- 
tion of the Immanent Shaper here illustrated is the 
metaphysical basis of IVIr. Hardy's drama. It is a 
conception that sometimes employs the language of 
Schopenhauer, 

"So doth the Will objectify itself," 
and suggests, now the mood of Lucretius, now that 
of the poet of "Vastness," but without the note of 
passionate faith that relieves the despair of that out- 
cry. It appears over and over again. The Spirit 
Ironic thus disposes of the defeat of Prussia and the 
grief of Queen Louise: 

" So the Will plays at flux and reflux still. 
This monarchy, one-half whose pedestal 
Is built of Polish bones, has bones home-made ! 
Let the fair woman bear it. Poland did." 



326 



THE DIAL 



[May 16, 



The tragedy of the Spanish expedition is thus fore- 
shadowed by the Spirit of the Years : 

"So the Will heaves through Space, and moulds the times, 
With mortals for Its fingers ! We shall see 
Again men's passions, virtues, visions, crimes, 

Obey resistlessly 
The purposive, unmotived, dominant Thing 
Which sways in brooding dark their wayfaring ! " 

The Spirit of the Pities thus comments upon the 
distraught mind of the King of England : 

" The tears that lie about this plightful scene 
Of heavy travail in a suffering soul, 
Mocked with the forms and feints of royalty 
While scarified by briery Circumstance, 
Might drive Compassion past her patiency 
To hold that some mean, monstrous ironism 
Had built this mistimed fabric of the Spheres 
To watch the throbbings of its captive lives, 
(The which may Truth forfend) and not thy said 
Unmaliced, unimpassioned, nescient Will I " 

And the same subject evokes this interchange : 

SPIRIT OF THE PITIES. 

" Something within me aches to pray 
To some Great Heart, to take away 
This evil day, this evil day ! 

CHOBUS IBOKIC. 

" Ha-ha ! That 's good. He '11 pray to It : — 
But where does Its compassion sit ? 
Yea, where abides the heart of It ? 

" Is it where sky -fires flame and flit. 
Or solar craters spew and spit, 
Or ultra-stellar night-webs knit ? 

" What is Its shape ? Man's counterfeit ? 
That turns in some far sphere unlit 
The Wheel which drives the Infinite ? 

SPHUT OF THE PITIES. 

" Mock on, mock on ! Yet I '11 go pray 
To some Great Heart, who haply may 
Charm mortal miseries away ! " 

It requires a superhuman degree of fortitude to ac- 
cept this view of the mystery of life, yet no other 
seems vouchsafed to the inquiring eye of our poet, 
and he makes us feel, while under the spell of his 
imaginative vision, as if all others were but tricks 
of our self-delusion. To descend from great matters 
to small, we must mention that a wrong accentuation 
of the name Rom^nofP has spoiled several verses of 
the drama. 

Although " The Dynasts " is written largely in 
prose, and although what verse it contains is of a 
rugged and uncompromising character, the work 
seems to us to contain more of the essential stuff of 
poetry than may be found in all the smoothly-flowing 
measures of "Nero," the latest dramatic poem of 
Mr. Stephen Phillips. Mr. Hardy, at least, has 
"wrought in a sad sincerity," however faulty his 
expression ; while artifice and rhetoric seem to be 
the chief ingredients of the work of the younger 
poet. The decline from " Paolo and Francesca " and 
" Ulysses " is discouragingly marked. The nearest 
approach to a purple patch is the following page, in 
which Nero's imagination pictures a conflagration 
which shall consume the world : 



" Nay, while I live ! The sight ! A burning world ! 
And to be dead and miss it I There 's an end 
Of all satiety : such fire imagine ! 
Born in some obscure alley of the poor 
Then leaping to embrace a splendid street. 
Palaces, temples, morsels that but whet 
Her appetite : the eating of huge forests : 
Then with redoubled fury rushing high, 
Smacking her lips over a continent. 
And licking old civilizations up ! 
Then in tremendous battle fire and sea 
Joined : and the ending of the mighty sea : 
Then heaven in conflagration, stars like cinders 
Falling in tempest : then the reeling poles 
Crash : and the smouldering firmament subsides. 
And last, this universe a single flame." 

In reading this, one is all the time conscious of the 
workman, and can almost see him as he pieces the 
composition bit by bit, until he thinks he has said 
enough. A comparison of this passage with the clos- 
ing scene of Mr. Moody's "Masque of Judgment" 
would afford an instructive illustration of the differ- 
ence between mechanical artifice and imaginative 
vision. " Nero " is in four acts, beginning with the 
secret murder of Claudius, and ending with the burn- 
ing of the city. The chief element of artistic unity is 
provided by the character of Agrippina : her ambi- 
tion makes Nero emperor ; her own murder avenges 
that crime ; and the crime of the son is in a measure 
avenged by the remorse that gnaws his consciousness 
thereafter. Aside from this, the trait of Nero most 
emphasized is that of his artistic dilettanteism, 
which is the key to the author's treatment of his 
character. 

Mr. John Payne is widely known as the founder 
of the VUlon Society and as the translator of Villon 
and of the Arabian Nights. He is perhaps less 
widely known as the translator of Boccaccio and 
Bandello, of Omar and Hafiz, and of many miscella- 
neous Arabic tales. These translations, numbering 
twenty-seven volumes, have been the main occupa- 
tion of his life, and have, to a certain extent, ob- 
scured his original work. But no lover of what is 
noblest in English poetry can afford to neglect his 
five volumes of verse, or the new matter that accom- 
panies the Villon Society reprint of that verse in 
two quarto volumes. American readers should, then, 
be deeply gratefid to Mr. and Mrs. Tracy Robinson 
for their labor of love in editing for the American 
public the " Selections from the Poetry of John 
Payne," which is now published in a single substan- 
tial volume, and which is supplied with an extremely 
interesting study of his work as a whole. Mr. Payne 
has never been a popular poet, and possibly never 
will become one, but he long ago won .the suffrages 
of the elect, and the praise of such men as Arnold, 
Home, Tennyson, Browning, Rossetti, Dr. Garnett, 
Mr. Watts-Dunton, and Mr. Swinburne may well 
console him (if he care at all about the matter) for 
the lack of popular applause. A prodigious scholar, 
an accomplished musician, a lover of children and 
animals, a thorough technician, and an indefatigable 
worker, he has raised to himself a literary monu- 
ment that will not easily be overthrown. Of the 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



327 



poems included in the present selection, the ballads 
are perhaps the most striking, but their length and 
closely-knit texture preclude our making use of them 
for purposes of illustration. The beautiful poem 
called " Shadow-SouL" although a long one, is more 
amenable to the extractive process, and yields such 
stanzas as these : 

'* Bnt over me a charm is cast, 

A spell of flowers and fate and fire ; 

Thy hands stretch out through wastes more vast. 
Thy dreams from deeper deeps aspire : 

Life throbs around me, like a blast 
That sweeps the courses of a lyre." 



" By times, too. as I walk alone, 

The mists roll up before my eyes 

And unto me strange lights are shown 
And many a dream of sapphire skies ; 

The world and all its cares are gone ; 
I walk awhile in Paradise." 



" Haply, one day these songs of mine 

Some world-worn mortal shall console 

With savour of the bitter wine 

Of t«ar8 crushed out from a man's dole ; 

And he shall say, tears in his eyne, 

There iros great lore in this man's soul I " 

The poet's preoccupation with music is here chiefly 
illustrated in a lovely poem inspired by Gluck's 
" Armide," and in a copy of dedicatory verses to 
Richard Wagner. 

'* O strong sweet soid. whose life is as a mountain. 
Hymned round about with stress of spirit-choirs, 
Whose mighty song leaps sunward like a fountain. 
Reaching for lightnings from celestial fires, — 

" O burning heart and tender, highest, mildest, 
Xightingale-throated, with the eagle's wing, — 
This sheaf of songs, culled where the ways are wildest 
And the shade deepest, to thy feet I bring. 



** Thine is the Future — hardly theirs the Present, 
The flowerless days that put forth leaf and die — 
Theirs that lie steeped in idle days and pleasant. 
Letting the pageant of the years pass by. 

" For the days hasten when shall all adore thee, 

All at thy spring shall drink and know it sweet ; 
All the false temples shall fall down before thee. 
Ay, and the false gods crumble at thy feet. 

" Then shall men set thee in their holy places, 
Hymn thee with anthems of remembering ; 
Faiths shall spring up and blossom in thy traces. 
Thick as the violets cluster round the Sprii^." 

The poem which includes these stanzas is dated 
1872, which shows it to be the product of an inde- 
pendent and far-seeing judgment. The echo of Mr. 
Swinburne's " Mater Triumphalis " is obvious, but 
that makes the verses none the less significant. Of 
the score or more of sonnets here given, we must 
quote one of the four inscribed to the Indian Savior 
of mankind. The one preceding has asked the 
question : 

" Is there no sage of all we turn unto 
Will guide us to the guerdon of our strife ? ^ 



And the answer is thus g^ven : 

'' Yes, there is one : for the sad sons of man, 
That languish in the deserts, travail-worn. 
Five times five hundred years ago was bom 
Under those Orient skies, from whence began 
All light, a saviour from the triple ban 
Of birth and life and death renewed forlorn. 
Third of the Christs he came to those who moora : 
Prometheus, Hercules, had led the van. 
His scriptures were the forest and the fen : 
From the dead flower he learnt and the spent night 
The lesson of the eternal nothingness. 
How what is best is ceasii^ from the light 
And putting off life's raiment of duress. 
And tanght it to the weary race of men." 

Of the influences that have shaped the development 
of this poet, we are thus told by the editors : " The 
poets to whom he acknowledges an actual debt are, 
first of all, the singer — 



and 



' Whose radiant brow is crowned 
With triple coronals ineffable. 
Attesting the assay of heaven and hell,' 

' The glad master standing with one foot 
On euth and one foot in the Faerv land.' 



of the postlude to the narrative poem ' Salvestra.* 
After Dante's sway and Spenser's he owns that of 
minds so diverse as Drummond of Hawthomden, 
Henry Vaughan, Landor (in the ' Hellenics ') , Words- 
worth, Heine (whom at one time he knew by heart), 
and Browning (in ' Men and Women,* ' Paracelsus,' 
and the plays). Repelled by Swinburne's earliest 
work, he came later to place him next to Shake- 
speare. Before the publication of ' The Masque of 
Shadows.' the influence of Emerson had given way 
to that of Schopenhauer, and this in its turn led 
to the study of the Yedantic philosophy of ancient 
India, which eventually became the poet's chief 
mental and moral guide." 

]Vlr. Andrew Lang, following the famous example 
of Bottom, takes care to explain that things are 
not always what they seem in his "New Collected 
Rh}-mes." and that his " Loyal Lyrics " in praise of 
the Stuart cause *' must not be understood as implying 
a rebellious desire for the subversion of the present 
illustrious dynasty." It is well that he makes this 
disclaimer, for we should not like to have him drawn 
and quartered at present, yet this might be his fate 
were the Hanoverian usurper to take too literaUy 
the poet's vows of allegiance to the White Rose and 
the "rightful king." Besides this group of songs 
devoted to a lost cause, the volume contains spirited 
ballads, cricket, golf, and angling rhymes, delicious 
parodies, and humorous verse upon artistic and 
bookish themes. '• A Remonstrance with the Fair " 
is one of the happiest pieces. 

" There are thoughts that the mind cannot fathom. 
The mind of the animal male ; 
But woman abundantly hath "em. 
And mostly her notions prevail. 
And why ladies read what they do read 

Is a thing that no man may explain. 
And if any one asks for a true rede 
He asketh in vain. 



328 



THE DIAL 



[May 16, 



*' Ah, why is each ' passing depression ' 
Of stories that gloomily bore, 
Received as the subtle expression 

Of almost unspeakable lore ? 
In the dreary, the sickly, the grimy 
Say, why do our women delight ? 
And wherefore so constantly ply me 
With Ships in the Night ? " 

The "Jubilee Poems" (by bards that were silent) 
constitute a group of parodies so good that it is dif- 
ficult to choose among them. " On Any Beach " is 
perhaps the best. 

" For, in the stream and stress of things 
That breaks around us like the sea, 
There comes to Peasants and to Kings 
The solemn Hour of Jubilee ; 

If they, till strenuous Nature give 
Some fifty harvests, chance to live ! 

" Ah, Fifty harvests ! But the com 
Is grown beside the barren main, 
Is salt with sea-spray, blown and borne 
Across the green unvintaged plain ; 
And life, lived out for fifty years, 
Is briny with the spray of tears ! 

" Ah, such is Life, to us that live 

Here, in the twilight of the Gods, 
Who weigh each gift the world can give. 
And sigh and murmur. What 's the odds 
So long 's you 're happy ? Nay, what Man 
Finds Happiness since Time began ? " 

Mr. Herbert's '• Poems of the Seen and the Un- 
seen" proclaim the author a Wordsworthian, not 
merely by their frequent use of quotations from 
Wordsworth, but also by the spirit in which they 
approach the shrine of nature. " Anima Alauda " 
may illustrate this point. 

" A heaven of light doth compass round, 
In prayer, the laverock-soul ; 
Outsoaring, in her song, the ground, — 
Upswinging tow'rds her Goal ; 

" Until the world, a blending mist, 
Hath melted from her eyes ; 
And all above, like amethyst, 

There gleam the unchanging skies." 

In another aspect, Mr. Herbert's verse has aflfinities 
with the utterance of the transcendentalists and the 
mystics, a quality revealed in his paraphrases from 
Platen and Rtlckert, as well as by echoes of philoso- 
phers from Plato to Coleridge. The following irre- 
gular sonnet is peculiarly typical of his mode of 
thought and expression : 

" The mind of Man reflects the Universe : 
No cosmic law, no rule of the great Pan, 
But in that mind its being doth rehearse : 
If aU was made, then all was made for Man. 
Witness the words of one, who scarce had known 
Their deep, oracular truth, — for he would rise. 
From gross and palpable things, to thought's high throne : 
God doth eternally geometrize. 

Could Plato dream, how point, and line, and curve, — 
All forms of thought, and modes of the ideal, — 
Would prove to be embodied in the real : 
Of Faraday's force-centres ; Newton's law 
Of mass unswayed, that wiU nor halt nor swerve ; 
And pathways of the stars, which Kepler saw ? " 

These poems make up for their deficiency in musical 
utterance by the earnestness of their aspiration and 
the compactness of their thought. 



Mr. Rickett's " Poems of Love and Nature " are 
fairly commonplace in thought, but occasionally 
arrest the attention by a bit of rhapsodical outburst 
or startling imagery. 

" Discord ! and Death ! and Dust ! 
Rot ! and devouring Rust ! 
From the lover's heart a god shall start, 
But devils are bom of lust." 

This author does better when, as in " The Sea," he 
adopts a more quiet diction. 

" The sorrow of the mighty sea 
Murmurs in its immensity, 
And for its one long, sounding grief 
Eternity has no relief 
Nor word for all the rock-white pain. 
But out, far out, upon the main 
The troubled sapphire of its breast 
Sinks to a silence without rest. 

" Blue synabol of an active power 
That stirs the passive Earth to flower ! 
The gentle, passive Earth a bride 
Who blossoms answer to the tide : 
And down the hills, along the plains. 
Love pours back through her river-veins. 
Till from the kisses of the sea 
In time she bears humanity." 

A slender volume containing ''The Last Poems 
of Richard Watson Dixon " comes to us under the 
editorial supervision of Mr. Robert Bridges, and 
with a preface by Miss M. E. Coleridge. Canon 
Dixon was a poet of sincerity and thoughtfulness, 
whose work won the suffrage of the elect, particularly 
in the case of his terza rima narrative "Mano," 
which no less a critic than Mr. Swinburne called a 
"triumphant success." There are less than two- 
score pages in this final sheaf of song, and more 
than half of them are occupied by "Too Much 
Friendship," a miniature epic having for its hero an 
Athenian whose fortunes (or misfortunes) suggest 
those of both King Candaules and Job. Our quota- 
tion shall be " The Earth Planet," which is remark- 
able for its compact and vivid imagination. 

" Thou fliest far, thou fliest far, 
Companion of each circling star, 

But yet thou dost but fill thy year : 
Thy orbit mayst thou not forsake. 
The path in space which thou dost make, 
Till death shall touch thy charmed sphere. 

" Half turning to the weary blaze 
Which measures out thy countless days, 

Half bathing in the depths of night, 
Thou urgest thy unfaltering speed. 
As if thou wouldst of force be freed : 

But still thou art the slave of light. 

" Or moved or fixed in vacancy 
Thy pitying sisters gaze on thee. 

Where'er be sped thy wondrous race : 
Nigher to thee they may not come ; 
Their eyes weep light, their lips are dumb ; 

Time is their lord, their prison space. 

" Thy lord is Time ; to imitate 
Eternity, yet bring thy date : 

Space holds thee ; but seems infinite. 
But what of them ? Thy mystery 
Or shared or not by them with thee. 
Lies in thy breast — thy parasite. 



1906.] 



THE DIAI. 



329 



" Art thou alone the planet. Earth, 
That gives to being that new birth 

Of which the womb is care and pain ? 
Lives man alone in that thick space 
Which through thin space doth hugely race, 

A clot that swims the immeasured main ? 

" Who answers ? Not the instruments. 
To pierce all space which he invents. 
And to untwist each ray that beats 
From the fire-fountain of these things 
And those remote sparks, whose wings 
Win flame from nature's other seats." 

'' Love's Testament " is a sonnet-sequence of sixty- 
six numbers, the work of ]Mr. G. Constant Lounsberj'. 
There are eleven groups of six sonnets each, classified 
under the captions of love, absence, passion, doubt, 
philosophy, content, separation, solitude, reconcilia- 
tion, jealousy, and retrospect. We select an example 
from the sixth group. 

" Petal by petal, the sweet hours are shed, 
The seasons pass, the old leaves fall away 
Stained with the scarlet of the wounded day. 

The ancient year bows down his whitened head. 

Oh love, with stealthy feet and hurried tread 
Time urges all things on and waits his prey, 
Nor shall our t«ar8 prevent, our prayers gainsay. 

The hour that adds us to its buried dead. 

" Oh mortal loveliness, immortal change, 

While memory whispers us this prophecy, 
That the sweet lingering past shall ever be 
A sweeter future, while our hearts exchange 
The new-bom pleasure of familiar love. 
Whose wings are folded, like a nesting dove." 

After all the tenderness and rapture of the preced- 
ing sonnets, we must confess to considerable disap- 
pointment at the cynical conclusion of the whole 
matter, which counsels us to " Count not upon a 
woman," to " trust her not," nor lend her 

" The holy, tranquil, steadfast name of friend." 

Nevertheless, there is much excellent poetry in Mr. 
Loimsbery's volume. 

A weak dilution of Job and Omar, of Lucretius 
and Dante, of MUton and Tennyson, of all the poets 
who have pondered over the mysteries of life and 
death, of sorrow and sin, of the soul and its Maker, 
is offered us in •• The Tree of Knowledge," a se- 
quence of one hundred and fifty-three sonnets. A 
fair example is the following: 

" He look'd without, and saw the rolling seas, 

The heav'ns alit with stars, the earth with flowers ; 
He heard the wail of winds when tempest lowers, 
The gentle sighing of the summer breeze. 
The nightingale that sang his love to please. 

And on a day the mountain belch'd forth flame, 
Earth shook for fear, and all this solid frame 
Seem'd to dissolve, and he along with these. 

He look'd within — and there he found a world. 
Where storms as fierce arose as those which hnrl'd 

The waves on high and laid the forest low — 
Tides of desire and hate, restless as those 
That give the other ocean no repose, 

Red flames of love and wrath, redder than lightning's 
glow." 

The lyrics of the late " Ethna Carbery " (Mrs. 
Macmanus) are collected into a small but precious 
volmne by Mr. Seumas Macmanus, who contributes 



a brief and touching introduction. These Celtic 
songs are if anything more Celtic than those of the 
other Irish poets with whom their author is grouped. 
Their characteristic imager}-, their wistful sentiment, 
and their haimting melody are tj-pically illustrated 
in the stanzas " I-BreasiL" 

" There is a way I am fain to go — 

To the mystical land where all are young, 
Where the silver branches have bnds of snow, 
And every leaf is a singing tongue. 

" It lies beyond the night and day, 

Over shadowy hill, and moorland wide. 
And whoso enters casts care away. 
And wistful longings unsatisfied. 

" There are sweet white women, a radiant throng, 
Swaying like flowers in a scented wind : 
But between us the veil of earth is strong. 
And my eyes to their luring eyes are blind. 

" A blossom of fire is each beauteous bird. 
Scarlet and gold on melodious wings. 
And never so hannting a strain was heard 
From royal harp in the Hall of Kings. 

" The sacred trees stand in rainbow dew, 
Apple ^id ash and the twisted thorn. 
Quicken and holly and dusky yew. 
Ancient ere ever gray Time was bom. 

" The oak spreads mighty beneath the sun 

In a wonderful dazzle of moonlight green — 
O would I might hasten from tasks undone. 
And journey, whither no grief hath been I 

" Were I past the mountains of opal flame, 

I would seek a conch of the king-fern brown, 
And when from its seed glad slumber came, 
A flock of rare dreams would flutter down. 

'• But I move without in an endless fret. 

While somewhere beyond earth's brink, afar, 
For^tten of men. in a rose-rim set, 

I-Breasil shines like a beckoning star." 

''The Three Resurrections and the Triumph of 
Maeve " is the title of a new volimie of poems by 
Miss Eva Gore-Booth. The first part of the title is 
accounted for by the three pieces that open the vol- 
ume, poems upon the themes of Lazarus, Alcestis, 
and Psyche. The second part of the title stands for 
a romance in dramatic form that fills the latter half 
of the volume. Miss Gure-Booth is a very thoughtful 
poet, who avoids affected diction, and combines depth 
with simplicity. The following exquisite stanzas on 
" Poverty " will illustrate her workmanship : 

" One swallow dared not trust the idle dream 
That called her South through fading skies and gray. 
One spirit feared to follow the wild gleam 
That drives the soul forth on her starlit way. 

'* As the starved swallow on the frozen wold 
Lies dying, with her swift wings stiff and furled, 
So does the soul grow colder and more cold. 
In the dark winter of this starless world. 

" Poorer than slaves of any vain ideal. 
These are the saddest of all living things — 
Souls that have dreamed the Unseen LigLt unreal. 
And birds without the courage of their wings." 

These poems are filled with the sense of wonder, of 
the myster}' beneath the surface of things, of the 
unrealities which alone are truly real. This is voiced 
in the words of Alcestis returned from the g^ave. 



330 



THE DIAL 



[May 16, 



" * Fear not, Admetos, the long road ' — she said — 
Led me through wind and fire, made pure by these, 
I bring no deadly vapours from the dead, 
No dreadful grave dust clings about my knees. 

" ' How shouldst thou, hearing but the last harsh sigh 
Of the poor noisy flesh, dream of the smile, 
Of the unheard, invisible ecstasy, 
Lo, I have lived in light a little while ! ' " 

This is the burden of " Beyond," which comes nearer 
to being a sound argument for immortality than all 
the labored efforts of the theologian. 

" Because the world's soul looks me through and through 
From every breaking wave and wild bird's wing, 
I trust my own soul, knowing to be true. 
Full many a worn-out old discrowned thing. 

" Because of those unearthly fires that shine 
Beyond Duneira of the sunset waves, 
I know that life is deathless and divine, 

And dead men's souls rest never in their graves. 

" Because of twilight over miles of green 
And one small fishing vessel sailing far 
Pn through the torment of wild winds unseen 
I steer my little boat by a great star. 

" Because the rose is sweeter after rain, 

Because fierce lightning strengthens the weak sod, 
I know life flares behind the golden grain, 
And ecstasy beyond the thought of God." 

Of " The Trimnph of Maeve," which fills two-thirds 
of this volume, we have no space to speak, beyond 
saying that it is a very beautiful poem, wrought in 
grave and subtle melodies, and filled with the haunt- 
ing spirit of Celtic mysticism. 

William Mokton Payne. 



Briefs on New Books. 



Problems of ^^' Goldwin Smith's new book " Irish 
Ireland and History and the Irish Question " ( Mc- 
the Irish. Clure-Phillips Co. ) is the latest addi- 

tion to the large and increasing stock of literature 
dealing with the Irish situation. It consists of a brief 
review of the history of Ireland from the earliest 
times to the present, and is prefaced by a discussion 
of the natural resources of the island and the race 
traits and characteristics of the Irish people. It is 
the saddest of aU histories, says the author, being a 
record of seven centuries of strife between races, 
bloodshed, mis-government, civil war, oppression and 
misery. Mr. Smith reaffirms the view expressed in 
his little book on " Irish History and Irish Charac- 
ter," published forty years ago, that most of the woes 
of Ireland have been due to natural circumstances 
and historical accident, quite as much as to the crimes 
and follies of her rulers. Nature's fatal mistake, he 
maintains, was in peopling England and Ireland with 
different and uncongenial races. The Papacy, by 
inciting the Irish to rebellion, brought upon them no 
small portion of their sufferings. English protec- 
tionism must also bear a part of the blame. Never- 
theless, the Liberal party did its best for Ireland ; 
and had the Irish members of Parliament done what 
they should have done, more rapid progress might 



have been made. As it was, Ireland shared the great 
measures of Parliamentary and municipal reform 
which she probably would not have achieved by her- 
self. She received the blessing of national and un- 
sectarian education a generation before England did, 
and but for the attitude of the Irish priesthood 
would have received it in full measure. Concerning 
present grievances, Mr. Smith points out that Ireland 
has more than her share of representation in Par- 
liament, that she has no established Church, that if 
her priesthood would permit it she might have a 
complete system of national education, that her land- 
law is more favorable to the tenant than that of either 
England or Scotland, that she receives subventions 
from the imperial treasury in aid of her land tenants 
which neither those of England nor Scotland receive, 
that the markets of the Empire are open to her and 
so are its offices, and that so long as the Irish people 
will abstain from outrage and murder they will enjoy 
the personal privileges of British freemen. Regard- 
ing the alleged grievance of Castle government, he 
points out that its abolition was offered to Ireland 
long ago and by her was rejected. If granted inde- 
pendence, she would have to assume many burdens 
and responsibilities now borne by the Empire, in- 
cluding military and naval defense. A general 
repudiation of rent would follow, and with it the 
extinction of the landed gentry. The establishment 
of a stable democracy among a people whose political 
training has been agitation against government and 
law, would be an arduous if not an impossible un- 
dertaking. In the opinion of Mr. Smith, the choice 
lies between separation and legislative union. Fed- 
eration along provincial lines he pronounces pre- 
posterous. A larger measure of local self-government, 
however, might be conceded without an abandonment 
of principle, and would doubtless do much to improve 
the situation. ^_^_^_____^_ 

New edition of ^^^ Swinbume's ''Tragedies" are 
Swinburne's now published by Messrs. Harper 
dramatic ivorks. & Brothers in a five-volume edition, 
uniform with the six-volume edition of the "Poems " 
which appeared more than a year ago. The entire 
poetical product of the greatest of living poets is thus 
made available in this collected form. We hope that 
some day we may have the prose writings to put be- 
side them. Mr. Swinburne does not revise his work ; 
as far as our examination has gone, it has shown no 
changes whatever from the original texts. The first 
of these volumes gives us " The Queen Mother " 
and " Rosamond," the next three are devoted to the 
Mary Stuart trilogy, and the fifth includes the four 
later dramas, " Locrine," " The Sisters," " Marino 
Faliero," and "Rosamund, Queen of the Lombards." 
At the close of the trilogy we have (very appropri- 
ately) reprinted the poet's "Encyclopaedia Britan- 
nica" essay on "Mary Stuart," and his note on 
" The Character of the Queen of Scots." The nine 
dramas which this edition includes, together with 
" Atalanta in Calydon " and "Erechtheus" (clas- 
sified with the " Poems ") constitute one of the most 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



331 



impressive achievements of English literature in the 
nineteenth century, an achievement which sends us 
back to Elizabethan times for a parallel, just as we 
must go back to Chaucer for a parallel to "The 
Earthly Paradise " of William Morris. It is hardly 
necessary to say (although " Locrine " was once per- 
formed in London) that these are not acting plays 
(except for the purposes of the stage of antiquity), 
but they constitute a perennial source of deep and 
noble pleasure for all lovers of poetry. Their highest 
level is reached in " Mary Stuart " and in " Marino 
Faliero," the one being an almost faultless example 
of grave restrained diction, the other of fervid poetic 
eloquence. Concerning the value of the Tragedies 
as compared with that of Mr. Swinburne's lyrical 
work, critical opinion has differed greatly. " I have 
been told," says the author, "by reviewers of note 
and position that a single one of them is worth all 
my lyric and otherwise undramatic achievements or 
attempts : and I have been told on equal or similar 
authority that whatever I may be in any other field, 
as a dramatist I am demonstrably nothing." No 
wonder that he has found this conflict of judgments 
both " diverting and curious." But such a question 
does not reaUy need to be decided at all, for, which- 
ever of these grand divisions of Mr. Swinburne's 
work makes the stronger appeal to us, we may none 
the less be devoutly thankful that he has given us the 

other also. 

The second volume of Mr. Elroy 
McKendree Avery's "History of 
the United States " has recently ap- 
peared, together with the announcement that the 
publishers, Messrs. Burrows Brothers & Co., have 
decided to increase the number of volumes in the 
finished product from twelve to fifteen. A publica- 
tion 80 unmistakably popular in character, and yet 
so thorough-going in its breadth of treatment and 
accuracy of statement, cannot fail to influence general 
opinions and at the same time to win the good-will 
of historical scholars ; therefore we welcome every in- 
dication of detailed labor. As in the first volume, 
the illustrations are an attractive and commendable 
feature, while the index to them, occurring in the 
front part of the book, is decidedly instructive. This 
index is very much more than a mere list of maps, 
autographs, and documents in facsimile ; rather might 
it be called a series of descriptive notices, giving, in 
most instances, the history and present whereabouts 
of its subjects. It is followed by a brief account of 
seventeenth-century chronology, the introductory 
value of which is much appreciated in a work of this 
sort. The Appendix is made up of two distinct parts 
— the one statistical, the other bibliographical. The 
former contains the names, not only of the early colo- 
nial governors, but also of the Mayflower passengers, 
gfTouped in a somewhat more convenient order than in 
Bradford ; the latter is a chapter bibliography, deserv- 
ing of very favorable comment. It is complete even to 
the inclusion of works yet in press, and, above all, it 
is critical. The body of the text brings our history 
down to 1660, and, since the arrangement of material 



A meritorious 
history of the 
United States. 



is strictly chronological, an excellent opportunity is 
afforded for seeing the colonies develop side by side. 
The discriminating use of authorities is very evident, 
comparison and collocation being with our author a 
favorite method of procedure. Nevertheless, for each 
group of facts he has invariably one main source of 
information, upon which he draws with scrupulous 
exactness. Thus, for Maryland there is Brantly's 
chapter in Winsor; for Virginia, the works of Alexan- 
der Brown ; for Rhode Island, Richman; and for New 
York, Wilson's " Memorial History." In spite of a 
few trivial errors in matters of date and the like, this 
second volume is in the highest degree satisfactory. 
It contains the very latest theories respecting such 
subjects as the introduction of women and of negroes 
into Virginia, and is especially happy in its correct 
interpretation of the territorial grant of 1606. We 
regret, however, that more attention has not been paid 
to the economic motives influencing the concession 
of religious liberty. It is true, there is reference to 
the matter, but it is only rncidentaL We await with 
interest the third volume of this meritorious history. 

Styaiige pranks ^' Camille Flammarion, as is well- 
played by known, is especially attracted by sub- 

hghtniny. jects that are fanciful or capricious. 

His recent book entitled " Thunder and Lightning " 
(Little, Brown, &, Co.) offers a fine illustration of 
this peculiarity of his mind. Instead of being a 
scientific treatise on the phenomena of atmospheric 
electricity, it is almost exclusively a collection of nar- 
ratives of the strange pranks which lightning plays. 
A majority of the stories are devoted to freaks of 
lightning in various parts of France ; they are there- 
fore not lacking in color. But after all reasonable 
allowances have been made for the excited condition 
of those who witnessed the results of the lightning 
strokes, and for their usual lack of scientific train- 
ing, the residuum of fact is sufiiciently astonishing. 
Several instances are related where lightning has 
destroyed the clothing without doing any serious 
harm to the wearer of it ; for the shoes of its victims 
it appears to have a special antipathy, usually tear- 
ing them to pieces even when the destruction of the 
rest of the clothing is incomplete. Occasionally its 
effects are beneficial to the person struck, as when 
it restores sight to the blind, hearing to the deaf, 
and speech to the dumb ; paralysis is cured at times 
by a lightning stroke, at other times it is caused by 
the same means. Animals are generally more sus- 
ceptible to death by lightning than men : sheep are 
killed while the shepherd is spared ; the ploughman's 
horses are killed while he escapes. The reader is 
apt to wonder whether some of the stories may not 
be pure fabrications, sent to the author in a spirit of 
pleasantry, as the following : " During a storm which 
took place in the month of August, 1901, lightning 
entered by a half-open door into a stable where there 
were twenty cows, and killed ten. Beginning with 
that which was nearest the door, the second was 
spared, the third killed, the fourth was uninjured, 
and so on. All the uneven numbers were killed 



332 



THE DIAL 



[May 16, 



the others were not even burned. The shepherd, 
who was in the stable at the time of the shock, got 
up unhurt. The lightning did not burn the building, 
although the stable was full of straw." One who will 
read carefully the hundreds of accounts collected by 
the industry of the author, and then attempt to form 
a theory as to the laws which govern the behavior 
of atmospheric electricity, will find himself in com- 
plete agreement with the closing sentence of the book : 
" Decidedly, we have much to learn in this as well 
as in all the other branches of knowledge." 

Eleven famous Dr. Beverly Warner's "Famous In- 
to the plays troductions to bhakespeare s Flays 

of Shakespeare. (Dodd, Mead & Co.) is another 
infringement of the self-denying ordinance that con- 
scientious publishers and editors should enact, — 
never to duplicate, without necessity, good work 
already in the field. Of the eleven introductions 
printed in this book, six were included in ]Mr. Nichol 
Smith's "Eighteenth Century Essays on Shake- 
speare," which was reviewed in these columns two 
years ago. They are the prefaces to the editions of 
Rowe, Pope, Theobald, Hanmer, Warburton, and 
Johnson. To them Dr. Warner has added the intro- 
ductions to the First Folio and to the editions of 
Stevens, Capell, Reed, and Malone. He nowhere 
alludes to Mr. Nichol Smith's volume, the editorial 
matter of which would have been of service to him. 
For example, he regards Rowe's Life of Shake- 
speare "as the most important of all contributions 
to Shakespearean literature, next to the plays printed 
from the lost manuscripts which Heminge and Con- 
dell included in their Folio"; yet the version of it 
which he prints is Pope's mutilated one, as a refer- 
ence to Mr. Smith's volume would have shown. His 
own editorial matter is not of great value, and there 
is no index. The English, too, is not always irre- 
proachable. The introductions themselves are of a 
curious historical interest, they indicate so clearly 
the source of the best modern theories of editing, 
and they reveal so entertainingly the internecine 
rivalries of eighteenth-century criticism. The art of 
slaying one's adversary in the manner of Warburton 
and Pope is, perhaps happUy, lost ; but its extinction 
has done much to eclipse the gayety of nations. 
Warburton's castigation of Theobald can never lose 
its charm: "What he read, he could transcribe; 
but as to what he thought, if he ever did think, he 
could ill express, so he read on, and by that means 
got a character of learning, without risquing to every 
observer the imputation of wanting a better talent." 
In the light of the best modern views on the staging 
of Shakespeare, one reads with some amusement 
Malone's complacent remark: "All the stage direc- 
tions, throughout this work, I have considered as 
wholly in my power, and have regulated them in the 
best manner I could. The reader will also, I think, 
be pleased to find the place in which every scene is 
supposed to pass, precisely ascertained." It would 
perhaps have been well if he had not done his work 
so thoroughly. 



Life and letters of Though the ordinary manual of Eu- 
an unfortunate glish history has much to say of the 
Italian princess, "glorious revolution" of 1688, it 
pays but scant attention to the Italian princess whose 
coming to England was one of the chief causes of that 
event. There can be no doubt that the marriage of 
the Duke of York to Mary Beatrice of Modena had 
much to do with the positive stand that he took on 
religious questions when he ascended the throne as 
James II. Mr. Martin Haile has recently published a 
study of the life and times of this unfortunate princess 
in a volume entitled " Queen Mary of Modena, her 
Life and Letters " (Dutton). The work is largely 
a collection of source materials, gathered principally 
from the Queen's own letters, but also from diplo- 
matic correspondence and reports. Many of the 
extracts given are both interesting and valuable ; but 
the author has also included a great deal of informa- 
tion that is relatively unimportant. As a history, 
the volume has decided value in two respects : it 
shows us the more attractive side of the Restoration 
court, and it disposes of a nmnber of problems con- 
nected with the Jacobite movements of the Orange- 
Stuart period. At the court of Charles II., the sur- 
roundings and behavior of the young Duchess Mary 
were in striking contrast to those that prevailed 
about her. " Not her beauty alone, but the candour, 
grace and goodness which accompanied it, captivated 
the people." After the exile in 1688, Queen Mary 
was the moving force in nearly all the Jacobite plots 
and conspiracies against the " usurpers " in England, 
both before and after the death of James II. Had 
it not been for the stubbornness of her selfish friend, 
Louis XIV., it seems that the Queen's plans would 
have succeeded in the end. While clearly in sym- 
pathy with his subject, Mr. Haile writes in a calm, 
temperate manner, and has produced a readable 
biography. The volume is provided with a number 
of excellent illustrations, portraits of members of the 
Stuart and Modenese families, and of distinguished 
contemporaries. 

,^ , . Of the sixty-nine volumes of the 
The story of ^ ■, ^^ • „ • ^ 

Greece once " Story of the J^iations series thus 

more re-told. fg^^. issued, Greece was the subject 
of the first and is now of the latest number. Other 
countries have received this double honor, their 
extended history being divided into periods. But 
Professor E. S. Shuckburgh's " Greece, from the 
Coming of the Hellenes to A.D. 14 " (Putnam), 
while traversing the same time as Professor Har- 
rison's earlier book, emphasizes the literary and 
artistic achievements of the Greeks rather than their 
battles and their politics — the soul of Hellas rather 
than her body. The book is written throughout with 
the fluent ease of a scholar who carries in memory 
the outline of Greek history, and has pondered fruit- 
fully on its most significant movements. Professor 
Shuckburgh published a summary "History of the 
Greek People " about five years ago ; and some of 
the present volume's contents are apparently worked 
over from that. In such a survey, limited to 453 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



333 



pages, proportion and perspective are naturally 
difficult to maintain ; but the author has generally- 
succeeded in doing this, and has left to the reviewer 
the easy task of praise for a work which, while no 
more scholarly than Bury or Bristol, is more read- 
able. Per contra, it has been written, and printed, 
a trifle too easily. On p. 17, "Hellenic" should 
evidently be " Homeric "; " dreaming " (p. 215) 
is allowed to stand for " claiming," or, better, 
"asserting"; the death of Euripides (p. 154) is put 
two years too lat« ; in a passage (p. 146) recounting 
the splendors of Athenian art under Pericles, it is 
as surprising to find the Parthenon dismissed with 
a single allusion as it is to see the Venus of Melos 
assigned to this period. Plato's name, too, might 
weU have been included in the list (p. 264) of 
eminent literary visitors to Sicilian courts. There 
are several other minor slips which detract from the 
pleasant impression made by the book as a whole. 
The numerous illustrations are excellent reproduc- 
tions of some of the best specimens of Hellenic art. 

There is always an interest attaching 
ThememMrtof ^q t^g account of a great movement 

an abolition ist. . . ■, - ir 

by one who was himself a part of it, 
even though the account may be partial and preju- 
diced : the personal element is present to g^ive life, 
and life is worth more than minute historical ac- 
curacy. The book of ^Ir. John F. Hume, " The 
Abolitionists, together with Personal Memoirs of the 
Struggle for Human Rights, 1830-1864 " (Putnam), 
is of this class. The author was reared in an aboli- 
tionist family in Ohio ; in his youth he saw the 
workings of the Underground Railroad, and as 
lawyer and editor in St. Louis at the outbreak of 
the Civil War he was a vigorous worker for the 
abolitionist cause. Naturally, he retains the point 
of view of the abolitionists and the outspoken cer- 
tainty that the abolitionists were right and all others 
wrong. The book was called out by the slighting 
references to the abolitionists made by President 
Roosevelt in his life of Benton, written twenty years 
ago, and is a vigorous statement of the part that they 
played in bringing on the Civil War and the aboli- 
tion of slaverj'. An interesting aspect of the book 
is the evidence it gives that the old abolitionist 
hostility to Abraham Lincoln has not yet given way 
to the unbounded admiration for him that now 
generally prevails. The author considers him as 
by no means the all-important factor in the national 

life of his day. 

AnEnglieh Jx is evidently a firmly rooted con- 

Germany'i viction of Mr. O. Eltzbacher that his 

development. country. Great Britain, by no means 
makes the most of her potential utilities. Germany, 
on the other hand, with far less natural endowment, 
has adopted a political and economic policy so prac- 
tical and far-sighted that her development, especially 
since Bismarck's time, has been nothing short of 
phenomenal. Mr. Eltzbacher's aim in writing his 
book on '"Modern Germany" (Dutton) is to con- 
sider, primarily, this policy, together with its results 



in Grermany ; and, secondarily, to study Great 
Britain's national problems in the light of Ger- 
man experience. He takes, as his point of departure, 
the distinction between EngUsh individualism on 
the one hand and German governmentalism on the 
other, and recognizes that a weU-balanced union of 
these forces produces national success. In many 
directions, he believes, can Great Britain turn to 
Grermany for instruction : in the organization of 
her army ; in the conducting of her agriculture and 
agricultural education; in the management of her 
canals and railroads ; and in her economic policy 
of protection. The facts Mr. Eltzbacher gives about 
Germany are interesting, and are substantiated by 
statistics ; but one is tempted to take issue with him 
when he disparages, almost to the point of vindio- 
tiveness, his home government. His statements here 
would carry more weight were they less extravagant, 
— notably in the comparison between the railroad 
systems of the two countries. The general reader 
can scarcely fail to be interested in the chapters on 
Grermany's expansion, its world policy, its attitude 
toward Russia, and the rise of the Social Democratic 
party ; for these subjects are vigorously and vividly 
described by one who is evidently conversant with 
them. " Modern Grermany " is both instructive and 
opportune. 



BRIEFER MENTION. 



Professor James Harvey Robinson's valuable source- 
book for students of the mediaeval and modem ages, 
hitherto published in two volumes, is now abridged 
into one. These " Readings in European History " are 
selected with wide knowledge of the field, and nice judg- 
ment of the needs of youthful learners. The value of 
a narrative manual is at least doubled by the collateral 
use of such a work as this. Messrs. Ginn & Co. are the 
publishers. 

" Elson's Music Dictionary," edited by Mr. Louis C. 
Elson, and published by the Oliver Ditson Co., is a 
volume of moderate size and extreme usefulness. The 
definitions are generally brief, and there are great num- 
bers of them, including the most modem expressions in 
German, French, Italian, and English. Particular at- 
tention is paid to the work of indicating pronunciation, 
a much-needed matter. We can cordially commend 
this book to students and teachers alike. 

A series of lectures by Dr. Melville Bigelow, dehv- 
ered on various occasions before the Boston University 
Law School as a " part of the plan of legal extension 
now on foot there," now appear in a volume with the 
title "Centralization and the Law" (Little, Brown, & 
Co.). The main lines of thought centre around the 
ideas (1) of Equafity, which, according to the author, 
was formerly the dominant legal force in American life; 
(2) of Inequafity, which is characteristic of present con- 
ditions ; and (3) of Administration, which is the supreme 
end of legal, and, in fact, of all education intended to 
fit men for the practical affairs of life. Specifically, the 
more important subjects discussed are the extension of 
legal education, the nature of law, monopoly, the scien- 
tific aspects of law, and government regulation of raVl- 
wav rates. 



334 



THE DIAL 



[May 16, 



Notes. 



A new and revised edition of " The Reformation," 
by Professor George Park Fisher, is published by the 
Messrs. Scribner. 

" Ferns and How to Grow Them," by Mr. G. A. Wool- 
son, is the second volume in the " Garden Library " of 
Messrs. Doubleday, Page & Co. 

« The Choral Song Book," edited by Messrs. W. M. 
Lawrence and F. H. Pease, is a recent school publication 
of Messrs. Rand, McNally & Co. 

Washington's " Farewell " and Webster's " Bimker 
Hill Orations " fill up a new " Pocket Classic," edited by 
Dr. William T. Peck, and published by the Macmillan Co. 
A "First Science Book" for elementary schools, 
treating of physics and chemistry, is the work of Mr. 
Lothrop D. Higgins, and is published by Messrs. Ginn 
&Co. 

" Episodes from the Gallic and the Civil Wars " of 
Julius Csesar, edited for school use by Professor Mau- 
rice W. Mather, is a recent publication of the American 
Book Co. 

An essay on Robert Louis Stevenson, by Messrs. G. K. 
Chesterton and W. Robertson NicoU, is published by 
Messrs. James Pott & Co. in a small volvmie with a 
portrait. 

" The Small House at AUington," in two volumes, is 
published by Mr. Jolm Lane in the neat edition of 
TroUope reprints which already numbers upwards of a 
dozen titles. 

" A Dictionary of Artists and Art Terms," by Mr. 
Albert M. Hyamson, is a new booklet in Routledge's 
"Miniature Reference Library," published by Messrs. 
E. P. Dutton & Co. 

" The Sources of Water Supply in Wisconsin," by Mr. 
W. G. KirchofPer, and " Anatomy in America," by Pro- 
fessor C. R. Bardeen, are recent numbers of the Uni- 
versity of Wisconsin publications. 

A " Deutsches Liederbuch fiir Amerikanische Stu- 
denten," edited under the auspices of the Germanic Soci- 
ety of the University of Wisconsin, is a recent publica- 
tion of Messrs. D. C. Heath & Co. 

Messrs. Henry Holt & Co. publish " A Course in 
Narrative Writing," by Misses Gertrude Buck and 
Elizabeth Woodbridge Morris, and " A Practice-Book 
in English Composition," by Mr. Alfred M. Hitchcock. 
The annual summer classes for the study of English, 
imder the direction of Mrs. H. A. Davidson, will be held 
in Cambridge, Mass., from July 5 to August 10. An 
attractive programme of courses and lectures has been 
arranged. 

The first series of the " Essays of Elia," edited by 
Professor George Armstrong Wauchope, is published by 
Messrs. Ginn & Co. The notes are unusually adequate 
to school needs, and there is other pedagogical appara- 
tus of a useful sort. 

Two new school-books by Miss Eva March Tappan 
are published by Messrs. Houghton, Mifflin & Co. One 
is a collection of " American Hero Stories," told for chil- 
dren, and the other is " A Short History of England's 
and America's Literature." 

"In the Days of Scott," by Mr. Tudor Jenks, is 
the fourth volume in the series of simple and pleasant 
narratives to which the author has previously contrib- 
uted a Chaucer, a Shakespeare, and a Milton. Messrs. 
A. S. Barnes & Co. are the publishers. 



Recent school-books published by the American Book 
Co. include " Elementary Latin Writing," by Miss Clara 
B. Jordan ; " Elementary Physical Science for Grammar 
Schools," by Dr. John F. Woodhull; and "First Year 
in Algebra," by Mr. Frederick H. Somerville. 

The Putnams will soon bring out in this coimtry a 
vohmae of literary criticism by Dr. Stopford A. Brooke, 
which vnll contain, among other essays, appreciations of 
Matthew Arnold, D. G. Rossetti, Arthur Hugh Clough, 
and William Morris. 

A second volume of " Mark Twain's Library of Hu- 
mor," published by Messrs. Harper & Brothers, is 
entitled " Women and Things." It includes about thirty 
examples of American humor by nearly that nimiber of 
writers, and the selections range all the way from lit- 
erature to vulgar buffoonery. 

" The Analysis of Racial Descent in Animals " by 
Professor Thomas H. Montgomery, Jr., of the Univer- 
sity of Texas, will be published this month by Messrs. 
Henry Holt & Co. It is a critical examination of the 
comparative value of the phenomena to be interpreted, 
and is, it is believed, alone in the field it covers. 

To the " Standard English Classics " of Messrs. Ginn 
& Co. there have recently been added these volumes: 
Thackeray's " Henry Esmond," edited by Mr. Hamilton 
Byron Moore; Ruskin's " Sesame and Lilies," edited by 
Mrs. Lois G. Hufford; and DeQuincey's "The English 
Mail-Coach " and " Joan of Arc," edited by Professor 
Milton Haight Turk. 

The Oliver Ditson Co., besides publishing the " Mu- 
sicians' Library," issue also a "Half Dollar Music Series" 
in paper covers. The latest number in this series is a 
very acceptable set of " Twenty Songs by Stephen C. 
Foster," edited by Mr. N. Clifford Page. A biographical 
page is included, and a portrait of this distinctively 
American composer. 

It will take three bulky volumes to contain the jour- 
nals of the Continental Congress for the single year 
1776, and the second of the three, edited by Mr. Wortli- 
ington C. Ford, is now at hand from the Government 
Printing Office. The period is from June 5 to October 
8, and consequently the whole history of the Declaration 
is imbedded within these pages. 

Three small volumes of Words worthiana are reprinted 
in uniform style by Mr. Henry Frowde. One is a selec- 
tion of " Wordsworth's Literary Criticism," edited by 
Mr. Nowell C. Smith; another is the "Guide to the 
Lakes " (from the 1835 edition), edited by Mr. Ernest 
de S^lincourt; and the third is the volume of "Poems 
and Extracts " chosen by the poet from various writers 
in 1819 for an album presented to Lady Mary Lowther. 

A new work entitled " The King's English " is about 
to be published by the Oxford University Press. The 
compilers have passed by all rules that are shown by 
observation to be seldom or never broken, and have 
illustrated by living examples, with the name of a rep- 
utable authority attached to each, all blimders that 
observation shows to be common. The book deals with 
questions of vocabulary, syntax, "airs and graces," 
punctuation, euphony, quotation, grammar, meaning, 
ambiguity, and style, and there is a full index. 

Text-books for English students of Russian are any- 
thing but numerous, and we give a hearty welcome to 
the " Russian Reader " just issued from the University 
of Chicago Press. The book is an adaptation, by Mr. 
Samuel Harper, of the French work of MM. Paul 
Boger and N. Speranski. The texts supplied are ac- 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



335 



cented, and are all taken from the writings of Count 
Tolstoy, especiallv from such of his writings as are ad- 
dressed primarily to children. The notes so exceed the 
texts in volume as almost to swallow them up. A 
lengthy grammatical appendix, an index to the notes, 
and a vocabulary, make up the remaining contents of 
this voliune, which is creditable alike to the young 
scholar who has made it and to the institution from 
which it issues. 

During the next few weeks the University of Chicago 
Press will publish the following books : " The Leg^la- 
tive History of Naturalization in the United States," by 
Dr. Frank George Franklin; "The Silver Age of the 
Greek World," by Professor John P. Mabaffy; Volume 
III. of Dr. Jajues H. Breasted's " Ancient Records of 
Egypt "; " Hebrew Life and Thought," by Mrs. Louise 
Seymour Houghton ; and " The Social Ideals of Alfred 
Tennyson as related to his Time," by Dr. William Clark 
Gordon. 

EDWDf BrBRTTT SMITH. 

The death of Edwin Burritt Smith, on the ninth of 
this month, was the loss of an aggressive force exerted 
for many years in the cause of civic morality and politi- 
cal righteousness. In the former field, Mr. Smith was 
one of the small band of earnest men who, through the 
agency of the Municipal Voters' League, have wrought 
a transformation in the city government of Chicago that 
has made this city the cynosure and working model of 
municipal reformers throughout the country. In the 
latter and larger field, his activities were chiefly enlisted 
in the struggle for civil service reform, in the war 
against pri\-ilege as exemplified by the unholy protective 
system, and in the effort to check the national madness 
of imperialism. As head and front of the crusade con- 
ducted (not as fruitlessly as many may now imagine) 
by the Anti-Imperialist League, his splendid services in 
behalf of the principles to which America owes all its 
greatness are not likely to be forgotten, and will be 
better appreciated fifty years from now than they are at 
present. He was a practical idealist in the best sense, 
never deluded by idle visions, never wasting his energies 
upon schemes that leave human nature out of their 
reckoning, but ever battling with all his might for con- 
crete reforms, and accomplishing no little in the direction 
of their realization. He was a man of the most absolute 
intellectual integrity, incapable of making any compro- 
mise with evil, a single-hearted man, simple and direct 
in his methods, a plain blunt man whose sincerity nobody 
dreamed of questioning. His faith was rooted in the 
reasonableness of democracy, and in the words of Lincoln 
and Lowell he found his highest inspiration. Men of 
his type are none too common, and there are few 
Americans living who could not have been better spared. 
The descendant of pioneer stock, Mr. Smith was bom in 
Pennsylvania in 1854;, spent his early years on an Illi- 
nois farm, became successively a school-teacher and a 
law-student, and finally settled in Chicago for the prac- 
tice of his profession, in which he rose to merited dis- 
tinction. He was a ready and forceftil speaker and 
writer, and was an occasional but always welcome con- 
tributor to The Diax. Until a year or so ago Air. 
Smith was the embodiment of physical and intellectual 
vigor; then he became the victim of the insidious disease 
to which, after a wearying struggle, he at last suc- 
cumbed. Those of us who loved him know well how 
poorer the world is for his loss and how richer for the 
example of his life. 



IiisT OF New Books. 



[The following list, containing 76 tides, includes books 
receifxd by The Dial since its last issueJ] 

BIOGSAPHT AND MEKOIBS. 
Klizabeth Montagn. the Qaeen of the Blue-Stockings: Ker 

Correspondence from 1720-1761. By Emily J. Climenson. In 

2 vols., illus. in photogravure, etc., large Svo, gilt tops. E. P. 

Dutton & Co. $i. net. 
Charles Ijever : His Life in his Letters. By Edmund Downey. 

In 2 vols., with portraits, large Svo, gilt tops, uncut. Charles 

Scribner's Sons. $5. net. 
The Victorian Chancellors. By J. B. Atlay. Vol. I., with 

portraits. Svo. gilt top, pp. 466. Little. Brown. & Co. $4. net. 
Edooard Bemenyi. Musician, liitterateTO-, and Man : An 

Appreciation. By Gwendolyn Dnnlevy Kelley and George P. 

Upton. With portraits, Svo. gilt top, uncut, pp. 255. A. C. 

McClurg & Co. tl.75 net. 
lAter Queens of the French Staff e. By H. Noel WiUiams. 

Illos. in photogravure, etc. large Svo. gilt top, pp. 360. 

Charles Scribner's Sons. $2 JO net. 
Bobert Browning and Alfred Domett. Edited by Frederic 

G. Kenyon. With photogravure portraits, 12mo, gUt top, 

uncut, pp. 161. E. P. Dutton & Co. $1.50 net. 
The Iiife of Saint Mary Magdelen. Trans, from the Italian 

of an unknown Fourteenth Century writer by Valentina 

Hawtrey ; with Introduction by Vernon Lee. New edition ; 

Ulus., 12mo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 286. "Crown Library." 

John Lane Co. $1.50 net. 

HISTORY. 
The Cambridge Modern History. Planned by the late 

Lord Acton, LL.D.; edited by A. Ward. Litt.D., G. W. 

Prothero, LittD.. and Stanley Leathes. M.A. Vol. EX., 

Napoleon. Large Svo, gilt top, uncut, pp. M6. Macmillan 

Co. H- net. 
War Oovemment, Federal and State, 1861-1885. By William 

B. Weeden. Svo, gilt top, pp. 389. Houghton, Mifflin & Co. 

12.50 net. 
Blae of the New West, 1819-1829. By Frederick Jackson 

Turner, Ph.D. With frontispiece and maps, Svo, gilt top. 

" The American Nation." Harper & Brothers. $2. net. 
Journals of the Continental Congress, 1774-1789. Edited 

from the original Records in the Library of Congress by 

Worthington Chauncey Ford. Vol. V., 1776, large Svo. uncut, 

pp.856. Washington: Government Printing Office. 

QENERAIj LITEBATTJBE. 
The Acorn: A Quarterly Magazine of Literature and Art. 

Numbers I. and n. Illus. in photogravure, etc, large Svo. 

uncut. J. B. Lippincot Co. 
The Seading of Shakespeare. By James Mason Hoppin. 

12mo. gilt top, pp. 210. Houghton, Mifflin & Co. $1.20 net. 

NEW EDITIONS OF STANDABD LITEBATTTRE. 
Paul et Virginie. Par Bemardin de Saint-Pierre. Avec fig- 
ures. 4to, uncut, pp. 155. Houghton, Mifflin & Co. $15. net. 
Poetical Works of Lord Byron- In 3 vols., with photogravure 

frontispieces. ISmo, gilt tops. ■" Caiton Thin Paper Classics." 

Charles Scribner's Sons. Leather, $3.75 net. 
The Essays of Addison. Edited by Russell Davis Gillman. 

With I photogravure frontispiece, ISmo. gilt top, p p. 682. 

"Caiton Thin Paper Classics." Charles Scribner's Sons. 

Leather. $1.25 net. 
Complete Works of Abraham Uncoln. Edited by John G. 

Nicolay and John Hay. New and enlarged edition. Vols. HI. 

and IV., illus. in photogravure, etc., large Svo, gilt tops, uncut. 

New York : Francis D. Tandy Co. 
Matthew Arnold's Merope. To which is appended The 

Electra of Sophocles translated by Robert Whitelaw._Edited 

by J4 Churton Collins. 12mo. pp. 169. LOxford University 

Press. 90 cts. net.,, 

fFicnoN.^ 

The! Mayor of Warwick- By Herbert M. Hopkins. With 

frontispiecel in color, 12mo, pp. 436. Houghton, Mifflin & 

Co. $1.50. 
For the Soul of Sa&el : A Romance of Old California. By 

Marah Ellis Ryan. Illus., Svo, pp. 378. A. C. McClurg & 

Co. $1.50. 
Lucy of the Stars, By Frederick Palmer. Illn8.,12mo,pp.344. 

Charles Scribner's Sons. $1.50. 
Where Speech Ends. I By Robert Haven Schauffler; with 

Prelude by Henry Van Dyke. Illus., 12mo, pp. 291. Moffat, 

Yard & Co. $1.50. 



336 



THE DIAL 



[May 16, 



The Private War. By Louis Joseph Vance. lUus., 12mo, 

pp. 315. D. Appleton & Co. $1.50. 
The Invisible Bond. By Eleanor Talbot Kinkead. Illus. in 

color, 12mo, grilt top, pp. 513. Moffat, Yard & Ck). $1.50. 
Sandpeep. By Sara A. Boggs. Illus., 12mo, pp. 421, Little, 

Brown, & Co. $1.50. 
All for the Love of a Lady. By Elinor Macartney Lane. 

Illus., 12mo, pp. 87. D. Appleton & Co. $1.25. 
The Law-Breakers, and Other Stories. By Robert Grant. 

12mo, uncut, pp. 277. Charles Scribner's Sons. $1.25. 
The Picture of Dorian Gray. By Oscar Wilde. New edition; 

with photogravure frontispiece, 12mo, pp. 334. Brentano's. 

$1.50 net. 
The Youn? O'Briens : Being an Account of their Sojourn in 

London. By the author of "Elizabeth's Children." 12mo, 

pp. 347. John Lane Co. $1.50. 
Ky Little Boy. By Carl Ewald; trans, from the Danish by 

Alexander Teixeira de Mattos. 16mo, gilt top, pp. 120. 

Charles Scribner's Sons. $1. net. 
The Third Daugrhter : A Story of Chinese Home Life. By 

Mrs. Lu. Wheat. With frontispiece, 12mo, pp. 318. Los 

Angeles: Oriental Publishing Co. 
The Pretty Ways o' Providence. By Mark Guy Pearse. 

12mo, gilt top, pp. 267. Jennings & Graham. $1. net. 
Rashl. By Maurice Liber; trans, from the French by Adele 

Szold. Illus., 12mo, pp. 278. Jewish Publication Society of 

America. 
Madeline the Island Girl. By Hope Daring. Illus., 12mo, 

pp. 282. Baton & Mains. $1. 

BOOKS OP VERSE. 

Gorydon : An Elegy in Memory of Matthew Arnold and Oxford. 
By Reginald Panshawe. 12mo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 113. 
Oxford University Press. 

The Heart of a Rose : A Narrative Drama. By William 
Marabell. 12mo, gilt top, pp. 134. New York: The Klebold 
Press. $1. 

TRAVEL AND DESCRIPTION. 

Travels of a Naturalist in Northern Europe. By J. A. 
Harvie-Brown, P.R.S.E. In 2 vols., illus. in color, etc., large 
8vo, uncut, gilt tops. A. Wessels Co. $20. net. 

Througrh India with the Prince. By G. F. Abbott. Illus., 
large 8vo, uncut, pp. 311. Longmans, Green, & Co. $3.50 net. 

Things Indian : Being Discursive Notes on Various Subjects 
Connected with India. By William Crooke. 8vo, pp. 546. 
Charles Scribner's Sons. $3. net. 

The Wessex of Thomas Hardy. By Bertram C. A. Windle, 
F.R.S. ; illus. by Edmund H. New. New edition; 12mo, gilt 
top, pp. 332. "Crown Library." John Lane Co. $1.50 net. 

Three Men in a Motor Car ; or, A Summer Tour in France 
and Switzerland. By Winthrop E. Scarritt. Illus. in photo- 
gravure, etc., 12mo, gilt top, pp. 268. E. P. Dutton & Co. 
$1.25. net. 

Down in Porto Rico. By George Milton Fowles. Illus., 12mo, 
pp. 163. Eaton & Mains. 75 cts. net. 

THEOLOGY AND RELIGION. 

The Apostolic Age in the Light of Modern Criticism. By 
James Hardy Ropes. 12mo, gilt top, pp. 327. Charles Scrib- 
ner's Sons. $1.50 net. 

Disestablishment in France. By Paul Sabatier ; trans., with 
Preface, by Robert Dell. With portraits, 12mo, pp. 173. 
Charles Scribner's Sons. $1.25 net. 

The Origin and Permanent Value of the Old Testament. 
By Charles Foster Kent, Ph.D. 12mo, uncut, pp. 270. Charles 
Scribner's Sons. $1. net. 

ECONOMICS. — POLITICS. - SOCIOLOGY. 
The History of Cooperation. By George Jacob Holyoake. 
Revised edition ; in 2 vols., illus., 8vo, gilt tops, uncut. E. P. 
Dutton & Co. $5. net. 
The Making of Modem Egrypt. By Sir Auckland Colvin, 
K.C.S.I. With photogravure portraits, 8vo, gilt top, pp. 421. 
E. P. Dutton & Co. $4. net. 
A Iiiving Wage : Its Ethical and Economic Aspects. By John 
A. Ryan, S.T.L. ; with Introduction by Richard T. Ely, Ph.D. 
12mo, pp. 346. Macmillan Co. $1.50 net. 
iStudies in Socialism. By Jean Jaur^s ; trans., with Intro- 
duction, by Mildred Mintum. Authorized English version ; 
12mo, pp. 197. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $1. net. 
M oral Overstrain. By George W. Alger. 12mo, pp. 214. 
Houghton, Mifflin & Co. $1. net. 

ockefeller before a Jury. By John A. Zangerle. 12mo, 
pp.206. Published by the author. $1.25. 



The Larger View of Municipal Ownership. By John A. 
Zangerle. 12mo, pp. 67. Published by the author. Paper. 

NATURE AND OTJT-DOOR BOOKS. 
Common Sense Gardens. By Cornelius V. V. Sewell. Illus., 

12mo, pp. 396. Grafton Press. $2. net. 
Fishing for Pleasure and Catching It. By E. Marston, 

F.R.G.S. With two Chapters on Angling in North Wales, by 

R. B. Marston. Illus., 12mo, gUt top, uncut, pp. 1.52. Charles 

Scribner's Sons. $1.25 net. 

SCIENCE. 
The Origin of Life : Its Physical Basis and Definition. By 

John Butler Burke. Illus., 8vo, pp. 348. Frederick A Stokes 

Co. $3. net. 
Report of the XJ. S. National Museum, under the direction 

of the Smithsonian Institution, 1904. Illus., large 8vo, pp. 780. 

Washington : Government Printing Office. 

BOOKS FOR THE HOME. 
The International Cook Book. By Alexander Filippini. 4to, 

gilt top, pp. 1059. Doubleday, Page & Co. $4.80 net. 
The TJp-to-Date Waitress. By Janet McKenzie Hill. Illus., 

12mo, pp. 148. Little, Brown, & Co. $1.50 net. 
Books and my Food. By Elisabeth Luther Cary and Annie 

M. Jones. 12mo, uncut, pp. 235. Moffat, Yard & Co. $1. net. 

EDUCATION. 

The Recitation. By Samuel Hamilton, Ph.D. 12mo, pp. 369. 
" Lippincott Educational Series." J. B. Lippincott Co. 

Readings in European History. By James Harvey Robin- 
son. Abridged edition ; 12mo, pp. 573. Ginn & Co. $1.50 net. 

English Composition. By Hammond Lament. 12mo, pp. 365. 
Charles Scribner's Sons. 

An Introduction to Astronomy. By Forest Ray Moulton, 
Ph.D. Illus., 12mo, pp. 557. Macmillan Co. $1.25. 

Practice-Book in English Composition. By Alfred M. 
Hitchcock. Illus., 12mo. pp. 226. Henry Holt & Co. 80 cts. 

A Course in Narrative Writing : By Gertrude Buck, Ph.D., 
and Elizabeth Woodbridge Morris, Ph.D. 12mo, pp. 200. 
Henry Holt & Co. 80 cts. 

Introduction to Scientific German : Air, Water, Light, and 
Heat. By Dr. Reinhart Blochmann; edited by P'rederick 
William Meisnest, Ph.D. 12mo, pp. 210. Henry Holt & Co. 
80 cts. 

A" Elementary Logrio. By John Edward Russell, M.A. 12mo, 
pp. 250. Macmillan Co. 75 cts. 

Geography Primer. By Oliver P. Cornman, Ph.D., and Oscar 
Gerson, Ph.D. Illus., 12mo,pp. 123. Hinds, Noble & Eldredge. 
60 cts. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 

How to Buy Life Insurance. By"Q. P." 12mo, pp.31. Dou- 
bleday, Page & Co. $1.20 net. 

In Vanity Fair : A Tale of Frocks and Femininity. By Eleanor 
Hoyt Brainerd. Illus., 12 mo, pp. 232. Moffat, Yard & Co. 
$1.50. 

The Game of Bridge. By Fisher Ames. 16mo, gilt top, 
pp. 183. Little, Brown, & Co. $1. net. 

Where Pussies Grow : Songs of Childhood and Nature. 
Words and music by Harriet Lee Grove; illus. in color by 
Ella Dolbear Lee. Oblong 4to. Jennings & Graham. $1.50 net. 

What Would One Have P A Woman's Confessions. 12mo, 
gilt top, pp. 260. James H. West Co. $1. net. 

La Chronique de France. Publi6e sous la direction de Pierre 
de Coubertin. 16mo, uncut, pp. 232. Paris: Imprimerie A. 
Lanier. Paper. 

Practical Rifle Shooting. By Walter Winans. With fron- 
tispiece, 12mo, pp. 97. G.P. Putnam's Sons. 50 cts. net. 

Twenty Songs by Stephen C. Foster. Edited by N. Clifford 
Page. 4to, pp. 62. Oliver Ditson Co. Paper, 50 cts. 



MSS 



PREPARED for publication and carefully typewritten. For 
• particulars address T. A. W., 314 Second Ave., N. T. City. 



ROOICS ALL OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS SUPPLIED, 
iJ\J\J i^^» no matter on what subject. Write us. We can get 
you any book ever published. Please state wants. Catalogue free. 
BAKER'S GREAT BOOK-SHOP, 14-16 Bright St., Bibuimoham, Ens. 

STORY-WRITERS, Biographers, Historians, Poets— Do 

— ^^^^^^^— ^— ^^^ you desire the honest criticism of your 
book, or its skilled revision and correction, or advice as to publication? 
Such work, said George William Curtis, is " done as it should be by The 
Easy Chair's friend and fellow laborer in letters. Dr. Titus M. Coan." 
Terms by agreement. Send for circular D, or forward your book or MS. 
to the New York Bureau of Revision, 70 Fifth Ave., New York. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL, 



337 



A' 



uthors 
gency 



Mention The Dial 



* Fifteenth Yeab. Candid, suggestive 
Criticism, literary and technical Re- 
vision, Advice, Disposal. MSS. of all 
kinds. Instruction. Refebe: 
Mrs. Burton Harrison, W. D. Howells, 
Mrs. Julia Ward Howe. Thomas 
Nelson Page, Mrs. Mary E. Wilkins 
Freeman, and others. Send stamp 
for Booklet to WM. A. DRESSER. 
R. 7, 400 Broadway, Carldge, Hass. 



SUMMER CLASSES FOR THE STUDY 
OF ENGLISH 

Fifth Session, 1906, Cambridge, Mass. 
For Manuscript Readers and Writers : The study and 
composition of English prose, and of short stories. 

For Teachers : Courses in "Idylls of the King," Fiction, 
Modem English Grammar, Old English, etc. 

Send for full list of courses to 
H. A. DAVIDSOy, The Study-Guide Series, Cambridge, Mass. 

STUDY AND PRACTICE OF FRENCH in 4 Parts 

L. C. BOMAMB, Author and Pub., 1930 Chestnut St., Philadelphia, Pa. 

Well-graded series for Preparatory Schools and Colleges. No time 
wasted In superficial or mechanical work. French Text : Numerous 
exercises in conTersation, translation, composition. Part I. (60 cts.): 
Primary grade; thorough drill in Pronunciation. Part II. (90 cts.): 
Intermediate grade ; Essentials of Grammar ; 4th edition, revised, with 
Vocabulary : most carefully graded. Part III. (SI. 00): Composition, 
Idioms, Syntax ; meets requirements for admission to college. 

Part IV. (35 cts.): Handbook of Pronunciation for advanced grade; 
concise and comprehensive. Sent to teaehert/or examination, with a 
view to introduction. 

Mgff~ -An unutual book, which from itt unique value hat won it* way 
to immediate recognition. 

"Here is far the most satisfactory to a judicial mind of the many 
critiques upon this subject." — The Outlook. 

The Truth in Christian Science 

And Its Errors. A Lecture before The College Club, at Boston, Mass. 

By HERBERT ERNEST CUSHMAN, Ph.D., Professor of Philosophy 

in Tufts College. Cloth, gilt top, 60 cents. 

" It is cause for gratification that a scholar has thought it worth his 
while to treat of this subject in a manly fashion. We could wish that 
all who give the subject serious thought, either as devot«e8 or as critics, 
would take the time to read this sane view." — Journal of Education. 
JAMES H. WEST CO. PUBLISHERS BOSTON 



WILLIAM R.JENKINS 

851 and 853 Sixth Avenue (cor. 48th Street) New York 
No branch stores 



FRENCH 

and other 
foreign 

BOOKS 



BEAD OUB 

ROMANS CHOISIS SERIES 

26 Titles. Paper 60c., cloth 85c. voL 

CONTES CHOISIS SERIES 

24 Titles. Paper 25c. , cloth 40c. vol. 
Masterpieces, pure, by well-known authors. 
Read extensively by classes ; notes in English. 
List, also catalogue of all publications and 
imported books, on application. 





Science; the Mind 

Revelation; the Heart of God^ 

By .J. ir. BARWELL 

A Business Man's Ideas of a Common Belief. 

Pamphlet, 25c 

Jacobs & Holmes. Publishers 

167 E. Adams St., Chicago. III. 





WORK IN A LIBRARY 

Its pleasures and duties : How and what to 
study for it. Read PUBLIC LIBRAEIES, 
a practical jotimal. monthly. §1. a year. 
Sample copy sent free. 

PUBLIC LIBRARIES 



156 Wabash Avenue 



CHICAGO 



The Soul 
of the People 

An AlI-the-Year 
Sermon by 

William M. Ivens 

^A summary of America to-day, 
its essential characteristics, its na- 
tional personality, its short-comings, 
its splendid possibilities 

^ A soimd, sane, hopefully coura- 
geous presentation of conditions by a 
man of affairs and broad experience. 

^ A book to make every reader an 
ardent worker for the Ainerica that 
is to lead the world's progress. 

Green Boards. 60 cents net. 

The Century Co., New York 

Engraved on Copper, Steel, or Wood 

Antique or Modekn Designs. 
Hebaij>by a Specialty. 

Crests and Coats of Abms. 

ROBERT SNEIDER COMPANY 

143-145 FUI.TON Stbeet new YOBK. 




WHAT WE ARE DOING 
FOR LIBRARIANS 



We now have the most efficient department for the han- 
dling of Library orders. 

1. A tremendous miscellaneous stock. 

2. Oreatly increased facilities for the importation of 
English publications. 

3. Competent bookmen to price lists and collect books. 
All this means prompt and complete shipments and right 

prices. ^^^^^^^ 

THE BAKER & TAYLOR CO., WholesaU Booksellers 
33-37 East Seventeenth Street. New York 



GENEALOGIES 



AX/OULD you like to know all about your ances- 
* ' tors — your complete family " tree " ? We 
have just added to our staff James E. Bookstaver, 
the noted genealogical expert, and are prepared to 
compile and publish genealogies of all descriptions. 
Address at once, if interested. Free circular. 



DEPARTMENT OF GENEALOGY 

BROADWAY PUBLISHING COMPANY 

835 BROADWAY NEW YORK 



338 



THE DIAL 



[May 16, 



THE "MAGAZINE PROBLEM" SOLVED 



YEARLY 

SUBSCRIPTION 

FIFTY 

CENTS 



(a)h2Ct s ill 

C[)aga!zmes 

^ Gnidc 2ciaD Index 
To tlic Cou-TcnlTs of tlic 
CurreiilT 'PerioDica.ls 



•puWishcD ©onrhly by 
CKc Dia.1 CoiTvpa-uy 
ChicAcJo 

« — ^ 



SINGLE 
COPIES 

FIVE 
CENTS 



CIt is the purpose of this little publication to make the mass of current 
magazine literature accessible to the every-day reader, — to show just 
what the leading periodicals contain and to indicate the general character 
and scope of the principal articles. It is not a library index, — there 
are no confusing abbreviations or cross-references. The arrangement is 
of the simplest and most convenient sort, to meet the needs of the average 
busy reader. Each issue presents a bird's-eye view of the magazines of 
the month, that will give one in five minutes the information hitherto to 
be obtained only by long and tedious examination of contents-pages on 
the news-stands. 



^ppr%i Ai Fora limited period, "WHAT 'S IN THE MAGAZINES" 

^" ^^^l^*— will be sent to any reader of this advertisement for one 

f^ £"£"17 y^^i* °" receipt of 25 cents in stamps or currency — just 

x^ I I t Im half the regular price. Specimen copy free on request. 



THE DIAL COMPANY, Publishers, Fine Arts Building, CHICAGO 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



339 



WHAT BETTER USE 

Ck>ald 7oa make of ONE DOLLAB than to send it for a 
Three Months' Trial Subscription to 

The Living Age 

That small sum wUl entitle you to receive Thirteen Xum- 
bers postpaid in the Unit«i States. Canada or Mexico, of a 
magazine which for more than sixty years has given its 
readers the cream of English periodical literature, ranging 
all the way from the stately Quarterlies to the Spectator 
and Punch. Your trial subscription will g:ive you more 
than 800 pages of the best essays, fiction, poetry, travel 
sketches, literary, art and musical criticism, discussions 
of social, religious and educational questions, and pat>ers 
upon Public Affidrs and International Politics. 
Annual subscription, six dollars. 

THE LIVING AGE CO., 6 Beacon St, Boston, Mass. 



IheSTUDEBAKER 

Michigan Boaleyard, between Congress and 
Van Bnren Streets, Chicago. 



MONDAY EVENING, MAY 21 

Henry W. Savage will offer for its 



Initial Production 



THE STUDENT KING 



THE BOOKS 
OF ALL PUBLISHERS 

are carried in our stock, 
which is larger and more 
general than that of any 
other house in the country. 

LIBRARY ORDERS 

given prompt and intelligent 
service. Our large stock 
and extensive library expe- 
rience enables us to give 
valuable aid and advice to 
libraries and librarians. 

CATALOGUE CARDS and 
CARD CABINETS 
We carry a special line and 
will be glad to furnish a 
price list. 

LIBRARY DEPARTMENT 

A. C. McCLURG & CO. 

CHICAGO 



Next Summer's Vacation 



Plan now on seeing Yellowstone Park, "Wonderland of the World." The finest coaching 
trip in America. The greatest of Nature's wonderful phenomena on every hand. 
Geysers, mud pools, tinted terraces, magnificent mountains, and bracing and invigorating 
mountain air. The best of hotels and accommodations. Write for "Wonderland 1906," 
six cents. It tells about the Great Northwest and Yellowstone Park. 

Go via GARDINER GATEWAY, the Official Entrance, 



AND THE 



Northern Pacific Railway 

St. Paul and Minneapolis to the Pacific Northwest 




Write for particulars to 



C. A. MATTHEWS 

General Passenger Agent 

208 So. Clark St. 

Chicago, 111. 




340 



THE DIAL 



[May 16, 1906. 



Third 
Edition 




Illustrated 

($1.50) 



MR. BINDLOSS takes us into the open air. In Henry Alton 
of Somasco Ranch he has drawn a character to awaken 
compassion and profound admiration. 

ALTON OF SOMASCO 



By HAROLD BINDLOSS 

A ROMANCE that shows the hand of a born novelist envelopes 
the girl who crossed unwillingly Alton's path and found her 
aristocratic standards put to shame before the nice code of the 
rancher. 

Unsolicited Praise from a Bookseller'' s Adviser 

" Anyone who admires clean, brave, heroic manhood will be delighted with * Alton 
of Somasco.' The book is strong, intense, vivid ; it has the fragrance of the great forests 
in which its scenes are laid, and its men have the strength, endurance, and solidity of 
the huge mountains on whose rocky sides they stand. . . ." — G. W. L. 

" A rousing good novels . . . one that we read with pleasure and put 
down with regret.'' — Tn^ Baltimore Sun. 



" An unhackneyed, impressive, and attractive 
tale, imbued with the spirit, the vitality, the large- 
ness of the open. . . . Mr. Bindloss depicts his 
characters with grace and dramatic force. It is 
a vigorous, vivid, and masterful tale." — - Grand 
Rapids Herald. 



FREDERICK A. STOKES 
COMPANY 



FREDERICK A. STOKES COMPANY 
339 Fourth Avenue, New York 

Please send me, Free of Charge, your handsome 
illustrated 32-page pamphlet of BOOKS suitable for 
SUMMER READING. 

NAME __^ 



Publishers 



New York 



ADDRESS- 



THB DIAL PEE8S, FINE ARTS BUILDINO, CHICAGO 



SUMMEILREA PrnG NUMBER 



tr- 



' P M ' 




^ SEMI-MONTHLY fOURN/fL OF 

^itcrarn Crilitism, giscussion, anb litformation. 



Edited by ^ Volume XL. 

FRANCIS F. BROWNE J iVo. 479. 



CHICAGO, JUNE 1, 1906. 



10 cU. a copy, f 
$2. a vear. \ 



Fine Abts BnuDiNo 
208 Michieran Blvd. 



LIGHT SUMMER READING 



THE COURT OF LOVE 

By Alice Brown 
" A literary frolic, light and graceful in 
execution."— 3'ejt' York Times. |1.25. 

THE MAYOR OF 
WARWICK 

By Herbert M. Hopkins 
"An exceptionally strong and absorbing 
novel of present-day American life."— 
Chicago Record- Herald. Frontispiece 
in color by Henry Hutt. tl.50. 

A LITTLE SISTER OF 
DESTINY 

By Gelett Burgess 
" A quaint, charming book. ... It is 
too short." — Washington Star. $lJSO. 

THE SPIRIT OF THE 
PINES 

By Margaret Morse 
" A masterpiece of discreet and reticent 
emotional writing." — Boston Transcript. 
fl.OO. 

THE CLAMMER 

By WiLiiAM J. Hopkins 
"Simply and quaintly told and infused 
with a delightfully delicate humor."- 
JVew York Tribune. $1.25. 

Henry Holt's 

Two novels hithei-to published 

anonymously : 

CALMIRE: MAN AND 
NATURE 

" The sincere book of a strong man." — 
The Critic, New York. $1.50. 

STURMSEE: MAN AND 
MAN 

" A singularly ripe and balanced concep- 
tion of ■ the whole duty of man.' " — Tfie 
Dial, Chicago. $1.50. 



THE 
EVASION 




By EuGENLA Brooks 
Frotbinoham 

" A creditable and sensitive 
piece of work." 

— Chicago Tribune. 

" Uncommonly well construct- 
ed and readable." 
— yew York Evening Pott. 

"A work of exalted aim and 
artistic excellence." — Boston 
Herald. 

"Her characters are credibly 
human." — Boston Transcript. 

" Strong, balanced, believable, 
and readable." — New York 
World. 

" Every page is absorbing." — 
Chicago Record- Herald. 

" Clear and bracing." 

— yew York Mail. 

" A very strong story of Amer- 
ican life." — San Francisco 
Chronicle. 

"Vastly superior to ' The 
House of Mirth.' " — Living 
Church , Milwaukee. 

$1.50. 



THE LOG OF A SEA 
ANGLER 

By Charles F. Holder 
"The greatest collection of fish stories 
that ever came to delight us." — yew 
York Times. $1.50 net; posti>aid, $1.63. 

CATTLE BRANDS 

By Andy Adams 
"Clever, original, and highly amusing 
tales . . . bits from life." — Boston 
Transcript. $1.50. 

BETWEEN TWO MASTERS 

By Gamaliel Bradford, Jr. 
" A clear ^;ut, wholesome study of Ameri- 
can life." — Chicago Record - Herald. 
11.50. 

BIRD AND BOUGH 

By John Burroughs 
" Simple and musical verse. ... A 
most delightful and companionable vol« 
Jiiae." — Birds and yature. $1.00 net; 
postpaid, $1.07. 

LINCOLN: MASTER OF 
MEN 

By Alonzo Rothschild 
"Agreeably and entertainingly written 
and punctuated with anecdote." — -^'. Y. 
Tribune. With 8 portraits. $3.00 net. 
Postpaid. $3.17. 

AMERICAN LITERARY 
MASTERS 

By Leon H. Vincent 
" A novel and charming volume of mono- 
graphs."— PA i7adWj>/itaPre»«. $2.(Kinet; 
postpaid, $2.12. 

THE PERSONALITY OF 
JESUS 

By Charles H. Barrows 
" A broad, devout, and illuminating study 
of our Lord." — JV. Y. Christian Advocate. 
$1.25 net; postpaid, $1.35. 



HOUGHTON, MIFFLIN & COMPANY, BOSTON AND NEW YORK 



342 



THE DIAL 



[June ly 



An Important Scientific Discovery 

The origin of LIFE 

Its Physical Basis and Definition 
By J. BUTLER BURKE 

WITH PHOTOGRAPHS, DIAGRAMS, ETC. 

\17HILE experimenting at the Cavendish Laboratory, Cambridge, to determine the effect 
' » of radium on sterilized bouillon, Mr. Burke found that he could secure the apparently 
spontaneous generation of growths, resembling bacteria, but which were neither bacteria nor 
crystals. They were termed " Radiobes." These bodies have since been examined by many 
eminent men of science, to whom they appear to be in a critical state between the vegetable 
and mineral kingdoms. 

" Unique in being a remarkable contribution to the fundamental problem of 
biology. His success is a new testimony, not only to the continuity of Nature, 
but to the continuity of Science — our knowledge of Nature." — The Dally Chroxicle. 

**/f provides material for the earnest consideration of every thinker who is inclined to scoff 
at the theory of universality of potential life in matter. . . . His book will be the subject of 
controversy.^^ — Morning Post. 

8vo, 351 pages, $3.00 net; postpaid, $3.18 



POPULAR SCIENCE SERIES 

"THE aim of this series is to supply the average man 
^ with the means of satisfying his curiosity with 
regard to the scientific phenomena that force them- 
selves on his notice in everyday life. Too often the 
educated man who has not had a scientific training 
regards science as something to be understood only 
by learned professors and lecturers. 

Theje handbooks are scientific tvithout being learned 
and technical in phraseology ; there is a refreshing up- 
to-dateness about the treatment of the 'various subjects 
that nuill insure the student as nvell as the general 
reader against ha'ving anything to unlearn as he ad- 
vances to greater kno^wledge. 

HEREDITY 

EVOLUTION 

PSYCHOLOGY 
ETHICS 

SOCIALISM 

By C. W. SALEEBY, M.D. 
Each, 50 cents, postpaid. 



HUMANICULTURE 

By DR. HUBERT HIGGINS 

r\R. HUBERT HIGGINS, formerly demonstra- 
*-^ tor of Anatomy at the University of Cambridge, 
England, and for many years Surgeon to the Adden- 
brooke Hospital, Cambridge, has written here a 
vigorous account of his investigation of what has come 
to be known as Fletcherism. Dr. Higgins, who was 
in poor health, volunteered as a check subject in the 
experiments of Horace Fletcher and became cured of 
his disabilities in a remarkable manner. 

As a student of sociology Dr. Higgins saiv in these 
demonstrations an element of usefulness in nuhat he 
terms HUMANICULTURE, and he resigned his ap- 
pointments in order to gi've unremitting attention to the 
teachings of the phenomena reatealed. 

It is written for the layman as well as for the pro- 
fessional person, and arraigns the so-called medical 
sciences for their lack of the simple knowledge of 
physiological functions which Fletcherism has re- 
vealed. 

12mo, cloth, 261 pages, $1.20 net; 
postpaid, $1.32. 



Publishers FREDERICK A. STOKES COMPANY New York 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



343 



STOKES" LATEST FICTION 



THE SPHINX'S 
LAWYER 

A New Novel by " FRANK DANBY," Author of 

"PIGS IN CLOVER" 

One of the greatest successes of the year of its publication. 

The *' Sphinx's Lawyer " is a brilliant Bohemian 
whose life has early been turned from the ways of con- 
ventional rectitude by his hero worship for an intellectual 
genius and moral degenerate. He finally marries a woman 
whose strength, goodness, and love raise him to a fulfil- 
ment of his highest possibilities. 

From " The Dedication "; " Because you ' hate and 
loathe ' my book and its subject, I dedicate it to you. . . . 
You assert — asseverate is, perhaps, the better word — 
that such a career as I have indicated is without the 
I join issue with you here, and leave the public to arbitrate between us." 




FRANK DANBY. 



region of art. 



The book was conceived in controversy and will always be a probable centre of discussion. 
Although primarily a strong story well told, it starts such questions as this: — Is it right that 
our prisons should (as is the rule) make men worse instead of better ? 

HUNTINGTON, JR. 

By EDWARD CLARY ROOT 

Those who have been roused by the new type of " Independent" will feel strong emotion 
in reading this story of a young man malting an uphill fight against ignorance, prejudice, 
the saloon element, the unscrupulus power of boss rule, and even criminal violence. 

How his character and courage serve him will interest Americans^ while the love story that runs 
parallel with the adventurous side of the book is convincing and dramatic. 
With four illustrations in color ^y S. M. Palmer. 



*' A rousing good novel . . . one that we read with pleasure and put down with 
regret." — The Balitkore Sum. y j^. 

By HAROLD BINDLOSS (Third Edition) X/>V\^ 



ALTON of SOMASCO 



Each 12mo, cloth, $1.50. 



At all Booksellers. 



Aw 






^"^v 



FREDERICK A. STOKES COMPANY /J^f/J' . e* 



Publishers 



New York 



344 THE DIAL, [Junel, 

BOOKS FOR THE LIBRARY TABLE 



Guarding a Great City william mcadoo 

Formerly Commissioner of Police, New York City 
The author describes in detail the inner workings of the New Yorlc police system and discusses the 
problems that grow out of the supervision of vice and crime in a great city, suggesting various reforms. 
The chapters devoted to the East Side, the Pool-Room Evil, and Chinatown are particularly interesting 
and portray picturesque phases of city life entirely unknown to the average citizen. The book is a 
valuable contribution to sociology and is certain to attract the attention of all interested in the vital 
problem of good government. Price . . * . net $z.oo, 



A Modern Slavery henry w^'n 



NEVINSON 

Mr. Nevinson travelled incognito into Africa to discover the true and startling facts of the tyrannical 
slave-trade secretly carried on by the Portuguese in spite of the Berlin Treaty of 1895. He has revealed 
to the world a valuable and appalling chapter in current history which cries to the whole world for 
redress. The volume is profusely illustrated from photographs. Illustrated. Price . ... net $2.00 

Evolution the Master-Key c. w. saleebyJ^m.d., f.r.s.e. 

" It is a mine of popular information. There are few who will not gain from it information which opens 
their minds and adds to their understanding of the world on which they live — and it is as entertaining as 
a novel." — Hartford Times. " Easily the most important book of the year." — Philadelphia Inquirer. 
Price net $2.00 

London Films w. d. howells 

This charming volume of "snap-shots in prose" by America's foremost man of letters is the best 
guide to London the traveller can carry. It is a masterpiece of prose writing, and deals particularly 
with those historic London spots which are intimately connected with the history of our own country. 

Illustrated. Price net $2.25 

Special Tourist Edition. Bound in Full Limp Leather. Price net $2.25 



HEROES OF AMERICAN HISTORY 

By FREDERICK A. OBER 



Columbus 



The career of the great explorer is followed in detail, and his personality set forth with striking clearness. 
Mr. Ober, under a commission from the United States Government, has sought out what vestiges of the 
early settlements remain in the West Indies. These researches, together with his visits to Spain, have 
thrown much new and valuable light on Columbus's career, which is herewith presented. Illustrated. 
Price net 



Cortes 



The exploits of Cortes, the conqueror of Mexico, read like romance. How this adventurer, a bankrupt 
Cuban planter, with a band of five hundred untrained soldiers, fought and intrigued his way to absolute 
power is the story told in this volume. Mr. Ober is a well-known authority on Spanish and Mexican 
history and an author of distinction in his chosen field. Illustrated. Price net $1.00 

Pizarro 

Mr. Ober has given a full narrative of the remarkable man who, with only a handful of soldiers, 
subdued the vast empire of the Incas of Peru. The story of his adventures is full of fascination, and 
Mr. Ober has succeeded admirably in keeping the personality of Pizarro vividly before the reader, and 
in bringing the times in which he fought near to our own. The volume presents in condensed form a 
greatdealthat has hitherto been accessible only in bulky and inconvenient form. Illustrated. Price, net $1.00 

HARPER & BROTHERS PUBLISHERS NEW YORK CITY 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



34^ 



THE HEROINES 

Of Three Delightful Novels for Summer Reading 











FROM 



Cowardice 
Court 



BY 



GEORGE BARR 
iMcCUTCHEON 

Author of 

"NEDRA" 

" The best thing that Mc- 
Cutcheon has done." 

"A very delectable bit of 
reading." — Baltimore Sun. 

$1.25 







:.-'^y*:f- 



?^!5^ 



FROM 



'Barbara 

IVinsloWy 

Rebel 

BY 

ELIZABETH ELLIS 

"A frankly romantic story, 
buoyant, eventful, and in 
matters of love exactly what 
the heart could desire." 

— New York Sun. 

$1.50 







FROM 






'Pam 
T)ecides 

BY 

BETTINA 
VON HUTTEN 

Author of 

" PAM " 

"The book is not only an 
exceptionally good sequel 
but also a good story in 
itself." — Chicago Record- 
Herald. 

$1.50 



DODD, MEAD & COMPANY NEW YORK 



346 



THE DIAL 



[June 1, 



A PANORAMA OF ROME 



IMPERIAL PURPLE 

THE STORY OF THE C/ESARS 



By EDQAB SALTUS 
Purple cloth gilt, grilt top. $1.00 net. 

" Brilliant, amazin«r to read, hard of belief, and disconcerting, 
for every line in it is truth." — Pall Mall Gazette, London. 

" A vivid picture of the corruption which ruined Rome." 

— London Academy. 
" The glamour of the decay of Rome is depicted in striking, 
vivid colours." — Onlooker, London. 



MODERN LOVE 



AN ANTHOLOGY 



One thousand copies printed on Van Gelder handmade paper, 
half cloth, gilt top, $1.00 net. 

POEMS BY LIVING ENGLISH AUTHORS, including 
Stephen Phillips, W. B. Yeats, A. E. Housman, Robert Bridges, 
W. S. Blunt, and 29 others. 

A fascinating volume of poems that will appeal to the heart 
and intellect of every man and woman. In no other volimie are 
there so many haunting lyrics. 

MITCHELL KENNERLEY, 

116 East 28th St., New York 



SIROCCO 



A 

novel 

by 

Kenneth 

Brown 

Has 
humor 
novehy 
excitement 

A 

delightful 

denouement 

Ask 

your 

bookseller 



(xmm 



SUMMER BOOKS 



# 



VACATION BOOKS 



C. N. & A. M. WILLIAMSON 

Authors of "My Friend the Chaff eur." 



Lady Betty Across the Water 

A delightful transcontinental love-comedy which treats of a pretty titled English girl's discovery of America — and the 
American gentleman. A true romance of modem life ranging from West Point to the prairies. 

" One of the most thoroughly refreshing stories in contrast with the arid waste of things published." — Boston Olobe. 
Six pictures in color, by Orson Lowell. $1.50. 

-f^ ^ c^ t • -Tk ^ HENRY WALLACE 

Red Saunders' Pets and other critters , ,, p^.^^i'r. .. 

Author of Red Saunders." 
Red Saunders, who is so well-known to thousands of readers, here appears in the novel role of an animal tamer. An 
eagle, a bob-cat, a snake and several other " animiles " afford an endless amount of fun and amusement both for himself and 
for the reader. 

" It is the wonderful realism of these sketches, their faithfulness to actual life, the mirror which they hold up to nature, 
that makes them especially valuable." — Brooklyn Eagle. 

Thirty illustrations by A. B. Frost. $1.^5. 



In Our Town 



WILLIAM ALLEN WHITE 

Author of "The Court of Boyville." 
The author of this book wrote the immortal editorial " What's the Matter with Kansas." That justifies an expectation 
of something out of the ordinary. " The Court of Boyville " established his reputation for a wonderful insight and sympathy 
with the life and heart of boys. " In Our Town " evidences his sharp and accurate knowledge of human nature and displays 
to excellent advantage his ability to delineate it. 

Cloth. Sixteen illustrations. $1.50. 



a 



Pigs is Pigs'' 



ELLIS PARKER BUTLER 



From Alaska to Cuba, from New Hampshire to California, letters have been pouring in asking for " the funniest story 
ever written." The Pittsburg Uazelle says : " Whoever cannot laugh heartily over Mr. Butler's delightful extravaganza must 
be afflicted with incurable melancholia. It is calculated to exhilarate the most saturnine dyspeptic." 

" If you have not read Butler's amusing short story, ' Pigs is Pigs,' you have a good laugh coming." — Chicago Record- 
Herald. Cloth. Five illustrations. 50 cents. 



Published by McCLURE, PHILLIPS & CO., 44 East 23d St., New York 



1906.] THE DIAL 347 

THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO PRESS 

NEW BOOKS 

The Silver Age of the Greek World By john pentland mahaffy 

" This book is intended to replace my ' Greek World under Roman Sway,' now out of print, 
in a maturer and better form, and with much new material superadded. There has grown up, 
since its appearance, a wider and more intelligent view of Greek life, and people are not satis- 
fied with knowing the Golden Age only, without caring for what came before and followed 
after. In this Silver Age of Hellenism many splendid things were produced, and the world 
was moulded by the teaching that went forth from Greek lands." (Extract from the preface.) 
490 pages; small 8vo, cloth, $3.00. Carriage 17 cts. 

Hebrew Life and Thought By louise seymour houghton 

The reader of the Bible who wishes to be well informed, and who yet finds little to attract him 
in accounts of scientific investigations, will do well to read this book. Enriched with the fruits 
of a life-time of study and versed in the intricacies of modern criticism, the author approaches 
her subject with a depth of feeling that reminds one of the best religious writers of the past. 
390 pages; izmo, cloth; $1.50. Carriage 15 cts. 

The Social Ideals of Alfred Tennyson as Related 

to His Time By william c. gordon 

It is rare that two departments of study are combined as cleverly and as profitably as English 
literature and sociology are combined in this work. It is a treatment, on a somewhat novel 
plan, of a subject at once literary and scientific. 266 pages; 1 2mo, cloth; $1.50. Carriage 1 ic. 

The Legislative History of Naturalization in the 

United States By frank george franklin 

The process by which our national laws rose out of chaos is a subject of perennial interest. 
Not jurists alone, but all intelligent citizens, will be attracted by this summary of the intricate 
debates that fixed our national procedure regarding naturalization. 330 pages; izmo, cloth; 
$1.50. Carriage 13 cts. 

The Finality of the Christian Religion By george burman foster 

A long-looked-for work of profound interest to students of religion is now appearing in " The 
Finality of the Christian Religion," by George Burman Foster. Certainly no reader will 
• escape a sense of sincere admiration at the power with which the problem is handled — the 
grasp, the fearlessness, the insight. 530 pages; 8vo, cloth; $4.00. Carriage 22 cts. 

Ancient Records of Egypt By james henry breasted 

Notwithstanding the rapid progress made during the last quarter-century in the reproduction 
and publication of documentary sources for our knowledge of the peoples of antiquity, no 
attempt has hitherto been made to collect and present in a modem language all the documents 
bearing upon Egyptian history. After ten years of labor, Prof. James H. Breasted now offers 
to Egyptologists and students of history a corpus of Egyptian inscriptions. The work is being 
published in four volumes, of which the first and second are now ready. To those who sub- 
scribe before July i a special price of $12.00 per set is offered ; after July i, $15.00 per set. 
Carriage 20 cents additional for each volume. 

Russian Reader By samuel northrup harper 

After extensive studies in Moscow, Berlin, and Paris, Mr. Harper is bringing out a " Russian 
Reader," an adaptation of a French book compiled by Paul Boyer and N. Speranski. 
400 pages; 8vo, cloth; $3.00. Carriage 20 cts. 

ADDRESS, DEFT. 20 

THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO PRESS 

CHICAGO AND NEW YORK 



348 



THE DIAL 



[June 1, 



On Common Ground 

By Sydney H. Preston. Just published. Already 

reprinting. $1.50. 

A gentle bachelor retires to a small farm and raises chickens with 

unexpected results. The humorous incidents of amateur farming, the 

simple amusements of country life, and the love affairs of man and 

master, maids and mistresses, are delightfully blended. 

"Seems to have in it something of Stockton and something of 
Donald G-. Mitchell. ' On Common Ground ' is altogether charming. 
. . . Full of quiet humor."— i\^. Y. Evening Sun. 

The Misses Make- Believe 

By Mary Stuart Boyd. $1.50. 
Ttro Devonshire gentlewomen attempt the conquest of London on 
slim means. Their story has the humor and the pathos of being 
"hard up," a good love interest, telling hits at social foibles, and 
effective bits of garden talk. 

The Sea Maid 

By Ronald MacDonald. $1.50. 
"For sheer entertainment this story is one of the best of the year, 
and is by no means devoid of the qualities that appeal to the literary 
sense."— The Dial. 

The Professor's Legacy 

By Mrs. Alfred Sidgwick. $1.50. 

A love story of German university and English country life, notable 
for humor and fine character drawing. 

"Strongly reminds one of Miss Fothergill's 'First Violin' . . . 
much humor and much excellent character study . . . very readable." 
— N. Y. Timet Review. 

The Nonchalante 

By Stanley Olmsted. $1.25. 

Casual data in the career of Dixie Bilton, who became an operetta 
singer in a small German city (said to be Leipsic). 

" It contrives to get the reader so strangely obsessed by the person- 
ality of a young woman that the sensation is measurably like that 
enjoyed by a man in love." — N. Y. Time* Review. 



Racial Descent in Animals 



Jr., Professor of 
i2.50 net; by mail, 



By Thomas H. Montgromery, 

Zoologry, University of Texas. 

$2.70. 
" A critical examination of the methods of determining racial descent 
and an estimation of the comparative values of the phenomena to be 
interpreted."— /iVoj« the Preface. 

The Election of Senators 

American Public Prohlema Series. 
By Georgre H. Haynes, author of " Representation 
in State lieerislatures." Just published. $1.50 net; 
by mail, $1.65. 
Explains the steps leading to the present method of election and 
the reasons therefor. It shows the results of this method on the 
Senate as an institution, on the personnel of its members, and on State 
and local governments. It traces the movements for, and exhaust- 
ively presents the arguments for and against, direct election. 

*«*In this series and uniform with the above HalVt IMMIGRA- 
TION. 81.50 net ; by maU, 81.65. 

Nature and Health 

By Dr. Edward Curtis. $1.25 net; by mail, $1.37. 
Sensible advice on the care of the person and the home. 
" May be heartily commended to lay readers desirous of living a 
sane, clean, wholesome life." — Literary Digest. 



HENRY HOLT 6 CO 

29 WEST 2,3^ ST NEW YORK 



JUST READY 

What Would One Have? 

A Woman's Confessions. 

Cloth, gilt top, 260 pages, $1.00 net. 

A DVANCE copies of this book have met enthusiastic comment, 

-'-*• evincing that it is by no means an ordinary but rather an unusual 

and remarkable work. Men and women in all classes of society have 

been profoundly moved by it, and are eager to meet the author. 

From Editors and Literary People: 

"Something out of the ordinary." "The author possesses rare 
talent." "More interesting than any novel. The scenes and in- 
cidents, we are assured, are all taken from actual experiences of the 
author. The early environments on the western New York farm, the 
school-teaching at the age of thirteen, the building of the railroad. 
Colonel Fuller veith the heaps of gold on the table guarded by two 
revolvers, Jason Bumpus and his mule, Aunt Sarah Silvering, and all 
the others mentioned in the book, actually existed." 

A woman writer of travel says : " The book is full of beautiful 
pathos and touches of humor. I think I like best the expressions of 
absolute Americanism that evinces itself without the aid of a fire- 
cracker. Father says : ' If you value an Englishman's verdict, I reckon 
this woman knew a thing or two before she began to write.' " 

One of the most prominent of Massachusetts librarians — himself 
an author and popular poet — writes : " 1 am greatly pleased with the 
book. It is evidently an honest expression of real feelings and ex- 
periences, and these are all that make a book worth writing or worth 
reading." 

Beside the New=Made Grave 

A Correspondence. By F. H. Turner. 
Cloth, gilt top, 170 pages, $1.00 net. 

THIS volume is an extremely suggestive contribution to the litera- 
ture of Immortality. It deals in a large way with two propositions : 

1. Thought is a function of the brain. 

2. The soul of man is immortal. 

Its aim is to show that these propositions are not mutually destruc- 
tive, as many have supposed them, but mutually corroborative ; that 
the thoroughly established truth of the former carries in itself assur- 
ance of the latter. Incidentally to its purpose, the correspondence is an 
admirable review in general of the attitude of modem science in its 
endeavor to interpret the universe, and particularly in its outlook upon 
the immortality theory. , 

JAMES H. WEST COMPANY, Boston. 



The Photo-Secession 

Its aims and work, with a dozen reproductions of 
the best American Pictorial Photographs. 

Philadelphia Water Color 

Exhibition. By Leila Mechlin. 

Minnesota State Art 

Society exhibition. By Emma E. Beard. 

Color Inserts 

Reproductions of two water colors by Arthur 
Melville, two colored drawings by Pasternak, 
two etchings by Brangwyn and ZoiR, photograph 
by Steichen, and painting by Parker Mann. 

INTERNATIONAL 
STUDIO 

JUNE 

SOLD EVERYWHERE 




1906.] 



THE DIAL 



349 



THE BEST SUMMER-TIME FICTION 



Published June 1 




BREAKERS 
AHEAD 

The NEW AMERICAN Novel by the author of 

That Mainwaring Affair (12 Editions) 

At the Time Appointed (10 Editions) 

Mrs. a. MAYNARD BARBOUR 

A strong American love-story, 
full of excitement and incident. 

IT WILL BE ANOTHER RECORD BREAKER. 

Frontispiece in colors by JAMES L. WOOD. 

12mo, cloth, $1.50. 



The BEST ROMANCE 
of the year. 



The 

Dashing 

Novel 



THE 

COLONEL 

OF THE 

RED HUZZARS 

By JOHN REED SCOTT 

A rattling good love-story, with a secret at its root, 
and danger, adventure, and intrigue in every chapter. 

Illustrated in colors by 
CLARENCE F. UNDERWOOD. 

12mo, cloth, $1.50. 




Published 

June 15. 



J. B. LIPPINCOTT COMPANY, PHILADELPHIA 



360 



THE DIAL 



[June 1, 1906. 



NEW MACMILLAN PUBLICATIONS 



NEW NOVELS 

Dr. Andrew Macphail's 
The Vine of Sibmah cioth,$i.5o. 

A romance of the days of the Restoration period, 
turning on the adventures of a valiant soldier in 
search of a winsome woman whom the fortunes of 
war had thrown in his way and withdrawn again. 

Mr. John Luther Long's 
The Way of the Gods cioth, $1.50. 

"There can be no doubt as to the artistic quality 
of his story. It rings true with the golden ring of 
chivalry and of woman's love, it rings true for all 
lovers of romance, wherever they be . . . and is 
told with an art worthy of the idea." — X. Y. Mail. 

Agnes and Egerton Castle's 
If Youth But Knew cioth,ti.5o. 

" They should be the most delightful of comrades, 
for their writing is so apt, so responsive, so joyous, 
so saturated with the promptings and the glamour 
of spring. It is because ' If Youth But Knew ' has 
all these adorable qualities that it is so fasci- 
nating." — Cleveland Leader. 

Mr. Owen Wister's 
Lady Baltimore cioth,$i.5o. 

"A triumph of art . . . the best interpretation of 
the spirit of the Old South that has been made 
... a true American novel in subject, spirit, and 
atmosphere." 

— Editorial by Hamilton Mabie in The Outlook, 

To be Ready in June. 

Miss Marie Van Vorst's neiv novel 
The Sin of George Warrener 

A study of life and manners among people of a 
suburban town, by the author of " Amanda of the 
Mill." The story is realistic and human, and its 
interesting theme is handled fearlessly. Cloth , $1.50. 

Ready on June 6. 

Mrs. Mabel Osgood Wright's 
The Garden, You and I cioth,$i.5o. 

The new book by the author of " The Garden of a 
Commuter's Wife " and " People of the Whirlpool," 
describes "a garden vacation," a novel idea, yet 
practical and pictured with delicious humor. 

Illustrated from photographs. 

Ready on June 20. 

Mr. Winston Churchill's neu; note; 

C O n i StO n illustrated. Cloth , $1.50. 

By the author of " Richard Carvel," " The Crisis," 
etc. Freely illustrated from drawings by Florence 
Scovel Sbinn. 



MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS 
Just Ready. 

The Writings of 
Benjamin Franklin, Vol. VII. 

Collected and edited, with a Life and Introduction, 
by Albert H. Smyth. Special Limited Eklition in 
ten volumes. Sold by sets only. Price, $3.00 net 
per volume, as issued. 

Mr. W. S. Harwood's 
The New Earth cioth, $1.75 net. 

Aims to describe interestingly the wonderful pro- 
gress of recent years in all industries having their 
focal point in the earth. With many illustrations. 

Mr. Ernest IngersoM's 
The Life of Animals — Mammals 

Illustrated with colored plates, unpublished pho- 
tographs from life, and many original drawings. 

Cloth, $S.00 net; postage 23 cent*. 

Professor Simon Newcomb's 
A Compendium of 
Spherical Astronomy 

With its Applications to the Determination and 
Reduction of Positions of the Fixed Stars. 

444 8vo pp. Cloth, $3.00 net. 

A new volume in the Series, English Men of Letters. 

Mr. Arthur C. Benson's 
Wa Ite r Pate r cioth, 15 cents net. 

Biographer more comprehending«nd sympathetic 
Mr. Pater could not have wished. 

Cambridge Modern History 

Planned by the late Lord Acton. Edited by A. W. 
Ward, Litt.D., G. W. Prothero, Litt.D., and 
Stanley Leathes, M.A. To be complete in twelve 
imperial Svo volumes. Each, cloth, $i.00 net. 
Vol. iX., NAPOLEON. Just Ready. 

Dr. Kaempfer's 
A History of Japan (1692) 

As translated by J. G. Scheuchzbr. 
The First Complete Reprint of this famous work 
since its publication in 1727. Three volumes with 
facsimiles of the original plates. Uniform with the 
Reprint of Coryat's Crudities, in the general style 
of Hakluyt's Voyages and Purchas His Pilgrimes. 
2'hree volumes, cloth, Svo, $9.00 for the set. 

John A. Ryan's A Living Wage 

A discussion of both its ethical and economic 
aspects, and of the basis of industrial, religious, 
and moral fact upon which its principle rests. 

Cloth, 12mo, $1.00 net. 

Dr. Forest Ray Moulton's 
An Introduction to Astronomy 

By the author of " An Introduction to Celestial 
Mechanics." With tables and over 200 figures. 

Cloth, Svo, $1.60 net. 
A book from which one may obtain not only some 
knowledge of scientific achievements.but also some- 
thing of the spirit which inspires scientific work. 



PUBLISHED 
BY 



THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 



64-66 Fifth Ave., 
NEW YORK 



THE DIAL 

a Semis^ottt^Ig Journal of fLitrtarg Critirism, ©iscusssion, anb lEnformation. 



TH£ DIAL (founded in I88OJ U publUhed on the lit and 16th 
of each month. Terms op Subscrxption,^. a year in advance, 
pottage prepaid in the United State*, Canada, and Mexico; 
in other countries comprised in the Postal Union, S<y cents a 
year for extra pottage must be added. BEtciTTAircKS should 
be by check, or by express or postal order, payable to THE 
DIAL COMPANY. Unless otherwise ordered, subscriptions 
will begin with the current number. When no direct request 
to discontinue at expiration of subscription is received, it is 
assurned tfiat a continuance of the subscription is desired. 
ADVEBTismo 'Rates furnished on application. All communi- 
cation* sTumld be addressed to 

THE DIAL, Fine Arts Building, Chicago. 

BNTEREO AT THE CHICAGO POSTOFFICE AS SEOOin>-CLASS KATTEK 
BY THE DIAL OOUPAmr, PUBUSHEBS. 



No. 479. 



JUNE 1, 1906. 



Vol. XL. 



Contexts. 

PAe« 

HENRIK IBSEN 351 

THOREAU AND HIS CRITICS. Gilbert P. Coleman 352 

TALES OF A SPORTSMAN NATURALIST. 

Charles Atwood Kofoid 356 

THE AMERICAN TREE BOOK. Bohnmil Shimek 358 

GARDEN BLOOMS AND WAYS. Sara Andrew 

Shafer 359 

Vaughn's The Wild Flowers of Selbome. — Sewell's 
Common-Sense Grardens. — Shelton's The Seasons 
in a Flower-Grarden. 

TRAVEIi> BY SEA AND LAND. H. E. Coblentz 360 
Mill's The Siege of the South Pole. — Arthur's 
Ten Thousand Miles in a Yacht. — Havell's Benares, 
the Holy City. — Abbott's Through India with the 
Prince. — Scarritt's Three Men in a Motor Car. — 
Fowles's Down in Porto Rico. — Harvie-Brown's 
Travels of a Naturalist in Northern Europe. 

RECENT FICTION. William Morton Payne . . .364 
Phillpotts's The Portreeve. — Castle's If Youth But 
Knew. — Beach's The Spoilers. — Bindloss's Alton 
of Somasco. — Naylor's The Kentuckian. — Wister's 
Lady Baltimore. — Vance's The Private War. — 
Hopkin's The Mayor of Warwick. — Palmer's Lucy 
of the Stars. — Wardman's The Princess Olga. — 
Potter's The Grenius. — Liljencrantz's Randvar 
the Songsmith. — Hale's A Motor Car Divorce. — 
Runkle's The Truth about Tolna. 

NOTES 367 

ONE HUNDRED NO\Ta^ FOR SLTIMER READ- 
ING 368 

A descriptive guide to the season's best fiction. 

LIST OF NEW BOOKS 371 



HENRIK IBSEN. 



Full of years and honors, Henrik Ibsen died 
on the twenty-third of May, ending a career of 
impressive example and memorable achievement. 
Bom in poverty, struggling until long past his 
prime for the bare means of decent livelihood, 
and writing in an obscure tongue of which cul- 
ture takes small account, he so imited native 
genius with single-souled intensity of purpose 
that his message reached the farthest comers of 
the ci^^lized earth, and all mankind is made 
grave by the news of his death. Yet " nothing 
is here for tears," even in this hour of bereave- 
ment, for we feel that his task was rounded out 
to completeness, and that he has not been called 
upon before his time to pay the debt that nature 
inevitably demands of each and every one of us. 
He had, moreover, the satisfaction that comes 
from the consciousness of world-wide influence, 
and the assurance that ere his own torch was 
extinguished many others had been kindled 
from its flame. 

" As he willed, he worked, 
And, as he worked, he wanted not, be snre, 
Triumph his whole life through, submitting work 
To work's right judges, never to the wrong, 
To competency, not ineptitude." 

The dying nineteenth century bequeathed to 
its successor a scant half dozen writers of the 
first rank, and to this small company Ibsen 
unquestionably belonged. But the fact of his 
greatness, although now generally recognized 
by those whose verdict is decisive in such mat- 
ters, has only recently emerged from the welter 
of a controversy as fierce and as protracted as 
that which, diiring substantially the same period, 
obscured the epoch-making achievements of 
Darwin and of Wagner. It was in the sixties 
that Ibsen created " Brand " and " Peer Gynt," 
the masterpieces upon which his literary fame 
must chiefly rest, but it was not vmtil the eighties 
that his work came to be generally known, and 
his name widely familiar, outside of the Scan- 
dinavian countries. And when the name found 
its way into the larger world, it brought with it 
not peace but a sword, for it belonged to a man 
whose convictions were not shaped by conven- 



352 



THE DIAL 



[June 1, 



tion, who made no concessions to sentiment, 
whose analysis of ideas was radical, and whose 
diagnosis of the conditions of modern life was 
far from flattering to complacency and self- 
esteem. So the ideas of this man, and the dra- 
matic pieces which embodied them, had to fight 
their way by slow degrees, for they found arrayed 
against them all the forces of philistinism, and 
all the prejudices of a society given over to 
materialism, and self-satisfaction, and comfort- 
able compromise. 

To such a society the message of this un- 
compromising idealist came like a cold blast 
from the north ; it was too bracing for weak- 
ened natures, too tonic for enervated consti- 
tutions. Its fundamental note was that of 
passionate indignation, and most of those who 
heard it coidd not see in modern society any 
particular cause for indignation. It had for its 
overtones spiritual rapture and a sublime faith 
in himian regeneration, but the hearing of its 
auditors was deaf to these harmonic elements. 

" Soon the jeers grew: ' Cold hater of his kind, 
A sea-cave suits him, not the vulgar hearth ! ' " 

Thus there came into existence what we have 
called " the Ibsen legend," a congeries of fanciful 
notions as far as possible removed from the 
truth, but a convenient defence against this 
persistent unveiler of hypocrisies, this doughty 
knight-errant of absolute truth and absolute 
righteousness. 

According to the legend, Ibsen is an ugly 
realist in his artistic method, a cold analyst de- 
void of human sympathies, a cynical contemner 
of mankind, and a pessimist of the deepest dye. 
This arraignment, grotesque as it is to the care- 
ful reader of what Ibsen has written, has been 
most effectively brought against him, has proved 
convincing to the generality of careless ob- 
servers, and, although it has- now lost much of 
its force, still needs to be met by the emphatic 
denial of those who have seen beneath the sur- 
face of the great dramatist's teaching, and are 
grateful for its ethical uplift. Those who have 
taken Ibsen to their hearts know him to be 
keenly sensitive to the beauty of artistic ex- 
pression, know him to be quivering with tender 
sympathies, know him to have an abiding faith 
in humanity and in the essential worth of life. 
He has, it is true, laid bare many plague-spots 
of our civilization, but merely as a disagreeable 
necessity, and solely for the purpose of hasten- 
ing that fairer future day in which his faith has 
remained invincible. 

Just forty years ago, Ibsen wrote these words : 



" It^ not for a care-free existence I am fighting, 
but for the possibility of devoting myself to the 
task which I believe and know has been laid 
upon me by God — the work which seems to me 
more important and needful in Norway than 
any other, that of arousing the nation and lead- 
ing it to think great thoughts." The man who 
had completed " Brand " only a few months 
before mightwellexpresshimself in these proudly 
self-confident terms. Yet with all his conscious- 
ness of power, he could hardly have imagined 
the extent of the influence that would be his in 
the coming years — that it would lead, not 
Norway alone, but the wide world on both sides 
of the Atlantic, to " think great thoughts," and 
to hold his name in grateful memory forever. 



THOREAU A ND H IS CRITICS. 

Probably no writer in America can lay claim to 
a sounder foundation for fame than Thoreau. He 
has earned every inch of the way he has gained. 
There has been no boom for him. He has had few 
helping hands, and has had to contend against a 
singular combination of misunderstanding, lack of 
appreciation, ignorance, and, in one case at least, of 
misrepresentation that is said to have been inspired 
by personal prejudice. 

It is amusing, and occasionally startling, to observe 
the infinite variety of criticism that has been stirred 
up by Thoreau's life and works. Many writers, for 
example, are agreed in describing his temperament 
as ascetic. Robert Louis Stevenson, however, is not 
alone in holding the opposite view. " He was not 
ascetic," says Stevenson ("Familiar Studies"), 
" rather an Epicurean of the nobler sort." Professor 
Nichols, in his little work on Anerican Literature, 
apparently is satisfied with middle ground, when he 
applies to Thoreau the classification, " lethargic, self- 
complacently defiant, too nearly a stoico-epicurean 
adiaphorist to discompose himself in party or even 
in national strifes." Nearly all the critics are agi'eed 
that Thoreau was a humorist, though they are by no 
means agreed as to the quality of his humor. Another 
school, headed by Lowell, is quite certain that he 
possessed no humor whatever. One writer speaks 
of him as " repellent, cold, and unamiable," while 
another declares that "in all social relations he was 
guided by a fine instinct of courtesy," and Emerson, 
who knew him nearly as well as anybody ever did, 
says that " he was really fond of sympathy "; a highly 
appreciative essayist speaks of the " fine resonant 
quality of his emotional side," and finds that he was 
" always thoroughly kindly and sympathetic." 

"Thoreau is dry, priggish, and selfish," again 
announces Stevenson, in one of his most oracular 
moods ; and a writer in the " Chiu*ch Quarterly Re- 
view " says that he was " thoroughly selfish, quite 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



353 



out of sympathy with men and their sufferings, bar- 
baric if not animal in his tastes, and needlessly 
profane." On the other hand, Mr. John Weiss, who 
was a fellow-collegian with Thoreau and has written 
an essay dealing almost entirely with his personality, 
takes a somewhat different view when he says that 
" no writer to-day is more religious "; and according 
to Mr. William Kennedy Sloane, '' the influence of 
his rugged energy, his fine idealism, the purity and 
honesty and manliness of his life, shall for genera- 
tions breathe through the literature and the life of 
America like a strengthening breeze," Emerson, in 
the familiar biographical sketch prefaced to the 
"Excursions," after paying a loving tribute to his 
departed friend, sums up his life as a practical 
failure : " Instead of engineering for aU America, he 
was the captain of a huckleberry-party. Pounding 
beans is good to the end of poimding empires one of 
these days; but if, at the end of years, it is still 
beans ! " Mr. Sloane, however, at once applies the 
antidote : " He excites envy by his success. His life 
is a rebuke which is felt and resented "; and Mr. 
Higginson backs this up in his " Short Studies," when 
he says, '• It is common to speak of his life as a 
failure, but to me it seems, with all its drawbacks, to 
have been a great and eminent success." 

A writer in the " Knickerbocker Magazine " re- 
garded Thoreau as a "rural humbug"; whereas 
Emerson has conferred upon him the degree of 
Bachelor of Nature, and ISIr. Torrey has elevated him 
to that of Master of the Art of Living. One school 
woidd have him a " skulker," " imperfect, unfinished, 
inaiiistic, parochial," " a mixture of misanthropy and 
self-conceit"; while others have said that he was 
" sinceritj^ itself, and might fortify the convictions of 
prophets in the ethical laws by his holy living." He 
is often called a ''thrifty Yankee," yet the same 
" Knickerbocker " reviewer is of the opinion that 
" Walden " is "a book needed where the philosophy 
of thrift is too prevalent." " He attempts no flights," 
says one. " For the moment Thoreau soars the em- 
pyrean with eagle sweep," says another. Again, it 
was said by a reviewer writing in 1891, that " upon 
the whole, there seems to be no reason for concluding 
that Thoreau can maintain his present prominence 
among American writers, or that his place in litera- 
ture, if permanent, will be a high one." In opposi- 
tion to this, we have the prophecy of many, as 
indicated by Mr. Sanborn, that Thoreau is likely to 
occupy a higher place in American literature than 
Emerson himself. " He lived some time by the sea," 
writes another, " and often visited its shore ; yet, so 
far as we may judge from his writings, he was not 
much affected by the wondrous beauty and majesty 
of old ocean." To offset this is " Cape Cod " with 
its now famous descriptions of old ocean, quoted 
by such a discriminating artist as Thomas Bailey 
Aldrich ; and also the confession of Thoreau himself, 
who admits that the ocean was, after aU, a bigger 
and a more inspiring thing than even his beloved 
Concord and Lincoln Pond. 



The same delightful variety of criticism extends, 
more impersonally, to Thoreau's books. " Cape 
Cod," for example, is '* dry reading," according to 
Mr. Sloane. A reviewer in " Frazer's Magazine," 
however, finds it "a curious and valuable work." 
"The volume on Cape Cod is deliberately formless 
in style," is the judgment of Thoreau's sympathetic 
biographer, Mr. H. S. Salt. " Of all his books, ' Cape 
Cod ' has the most finished and sustained style," is 
the somewhat contrary view of 3Ir. Weiss. " He 
inflicts his full quantity [of dulness] in such books 
as ' Cape Cod,' or ' The Yankee in Canada,' " sol- 
emnly declares Stevenson; whereas Mr. Weiss 
observes that "the pages of 'Cape Cod' bear the 
reader along without conscious effort," and others 
are equally certain that it is the most human, con- 
nected, and interesting of all of Thoreau's writingps. 
One writer, however, insists that the book is " juice- 
less, uninspired, perishable, a third-rate work," — an 
opinion that is not corroborated by a reviewer in the 
contemporaneous " Dial," who prescribes the volume 
as a cure for the blues. In speaking of " Walden," 
one critic observes that very few will be able to read 
the book a second time. Mr. Higginson thinks it 
is " one of the few books in all literature that may 
be read with pleasure once a year." 

Of those opinions of Thoreau which have evidently 
been based on insufficient information, the most in- 
complete, unsatisfactory, inadequate, though possibly 
the cleverest and most brilliant, is that of Robert 
Louis Stevenson. He has presumed to reveal Tho- 
reau's character and opinions fortified only by a 
perusal of the published letters, of "Walden," of 
Emerson's biographical sketch, and by a scrutiny of 
a badly executed wood-cut. He thinks he sees a rude 
nobility, like that of a barbarian king, in the imshaken 
confidence which Thoreau has in himself, and in his 
indifference to the wants, thoughts, or sufferings of 
others ; and he quotes, as illustrating this point, " If 
ever I did any good in their [men's] sense, of course 
it M^as something exceptional and insignificant com- 
pared ynXh. the good or evil I am constantly doing 
by being what I am" But in what respect does 
this show indifference to the wants, thoughts, or suf- 
ferings of others? To indulge in a little paradox 
on our own account, right here lies the very unsel- 
fishness of Thoreau's selfishness. The poet-naturalist, 
as he was constituted, was better able to help his 
fellow-man by living his own life as perfectly as pos- 
sible than by mere commonplace acts of charity. 
" Walden " was the foundation for Stevenson's 
screed ; yet it is plain that the pages on " Philan- 
thropy " must have been skipped, for there Thoreau 
says, " I would not subtract anything from the praise 
that is due to philanthropy, but merely demand jus- 
tice for all who by their lives and works are a 
blessing to mankind." 

It appears that after Stevenson had published 
his little essay in the "Cornhill Magazine," it 
met the eye of Thoreau's Scotch disciple. Dr. A. H. 



354 



THE DIAL 



[June 1, 



Japp; and the latter gentleman immediately took 
the reviewer to task. Therefore, when the essay 
was presented in book form in the collection entitled 
^' Familiar Studies of Men and Books," Stevenson 
wrote his "preface by way of criticism," in which 
he is kind enough to retract a number of the harsh 
things he had said about the poet-naturalist, attri- 
buting them to a "too earnest reflection on imper- 
fect facts." The preface is highly entertaining, 
and shows with what unerring aim two Scotchmen, 
shooting at long range, can miss the bull's-eye of 
fact, and the circumadjacent rings of easily de- 
duced inference. After this illumination from Dr. 
Japp, Stevenson learns that if Thoreau were content 
to dwell on Walden Pond it was not merely with 
designs of self-improvement, but in order to serve 
mankind in the highest sense. " Hither [to Walden] 
came the fleeing slave ; thence was he despatched 
along the road to freedom. That shanty in the woods 
was a station in the great Underground Railroad." 
Of course we all know how the underground railroad 
story originated, — how Thoreau once received a 
fleeing slave under his protection, and, at the cost 
of infinite discomfort and considerable risk to him- 
self, had him sent safely to Canada. But that this 
was his practice, and that the retreat to Walden was 
undertaken for this purpose, cannot be believed by 
anyone who has an adequate acquaintance with the 
facts. 

It is said that Lowell entertained a prejudice 
against Thoreau, occasioned by a certain matter that 
affected the latter's pride and hurt the former's edi- 
torial dignity. Even if this prejudice existed, we 
do not believe that it inspired the mistaken and un- 
just criticism of Thoreau in "My Study Windows." 
The criticism was the result, we believe, of a lack 
of sympathy, and of constitutional inability, on 
Lowell's part, to comprehend the point of view of the 
poet-naturalist. Indeed, never were two men more 
widely, more hopelessly apart. On the one hand is 
Lowell, the polished gentleman, the future Minister 
to the Court of St. James, the genial poet and ac- 
complished scholar, the college professor of belles- 
lettres, the affable companion, full of grace, courtesy, 
sparkling wit and crackling humor, with well- 
trimmed whiskers and perfectly fitting clothes. On 
the other hand we have Thoreau, — a man of the 
woods, a rustic, who avoided the society of women 
because he felt ill at ease, was hardly affable even 
to his most intimate friends, but was congenial to 
woodsmen and woodchucks, jumping fences to make 
a short cut, walking the backbone of Cape Cod with 
a brown paper parcel and an umbrella, sitting by 
the roadside in order to study the configuration of a 
skunk, writing of himself ("A Yankee in Canada"), 
"I had for all head-covering a thin palmleaf hat 
without lining, that cost twenty-five cents, and over 
my coat one of those unspeakably cheap, as well as 
thin, brown linen sacks of the Oak Hall pattern, 
which every summer appear all over New England, 
thick as the leaves upon the trees. It was a thor- 



oughly Yankee costume, which some of my fellow- 
travellers wore in the cars to save their coats a 
dusting. I wore mine at first because it looked 
better than the coat it covered, and last because two 
coats are warmer than one, though one is thin and 
dirty." 

In one of those singularly apt figures for which 
Lowell is noted, he shows, to the satisfaction of many 
readers (judging from the approbation which his 
essay has received), that Thoreau is an imitator of 
Emerson. Thoreau has " picked his strawberries 
from Emerson's garden. . . . He is a pistillate plant 
kindled to fruitage by the Emersonian pollen. . . . 
He has stolen the windfall apples from Emerson's 
orchard," and so on. That there was a certain 
resemblance between Thoreau and Emerson, cannot 
be denied. It appears to be generally agreed by all 
those who were personally acquainted with both that 
the philosopher made his influence felt on the poet- 
naturalist. Some writers assei*t with confidence 
that all of Thoreau's philosophy was inspired by 
Emerson's lecture on " Nature," although there are 
certain awkward objections to this, the principal 
of which is that Thoreau was not acquainted with 
" Nature " untU after he had done considerable phi- 
losophizing independent of a tutor. Others have 
maintained that Thoreau was not only unconsciously 
affected by the magnetic power of his friend and 
townsman, but that he deliberately set himself to 
work to copy him in manner, in speech, in mode of 
walk, in the fashion of wearing his beard, and (but 
perhaps this was less deliberate) in the shape of 
his nose. 

There can, of course, be no doubt that Emerson 
exerted a very subtle and irresistible influence on all 
who came into contact with him. Indeed, many 
pilgrims visited him in order that they might come 
within this influence. His was without question the 
most powerfully aesthetic, the most originally trans- 
cendental mind in America at the time when Thoreau 
lived, and this powerful and original mind was united 
with a personality singularly sweet and engaging. 
Thoreau, a young man some sixteen years the junior 
of his patron, was greatly indebted to Emerson, — 
more so, probably, than appears in any of the bio- 
graphical records. No doubt he was in a measure 
influenced by Emerson's thought. In our view, 
whatever there was in Thoreau of professed trans- 
cendentalism was due largely to the influence of 
Emerson. But that he was a mere imitator, — that 
his work, liis thoughts, his philosophy, is a mere 
reflection of the great light shed by his brilliant 
contemporary, — it is impossible to believe. Though 
the two were alike in many superficial aspects, they 
were poles apart in many essentials. Emerson him- 
self has warmly resented the idea that Thoreau was 
only a disciple, and as stoutly maintained that his 
friend was an original genius. And Emerson's son, 
in "Emerson in Concord," says: "The charge of 
imitating Emerson, too often made against Thoreau, 
is idle and untenable, though unfortunately it has 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



355 



received some degree of sanction in high quarters. 
. . . Thoreau was incapable of conscious imitation. 
His faults, if any, lay in exactly the opposite direc- 
tion." And Dr. Holmes, in his " Life of Emerson " 
says: "Thoreau lent him [Emerson] a new set of 
organs of sense of wonderful delicacy. Emerson 
looked at nature as a poet, and his natural history, if 
left to himself, would have been as vague as that of 
Polonius. . . . Emerson's long intimacy with him 
taught him to g^ve an outline to many natural ob- 
jects which would have been poetic nebulae to him 
but for this companionship." 

Lowell ag^in says : *' He looked with utter con- 
tempt on the august drama of destiny of which his 
country was the scene, and on which the curtain had 
already risen." It is difficult to understand how 
these lines could have been written by anyone who 
had the slightest acquaintance with Thoreau's views 
and activity in regard to the great political question 
that agitated the country during his later years. 
None of the animadversions on Thoreau has appeared 
to be more unjust than this. Is it possible that 
Lowell was ignorant of Thoreau's attitude toward 
slavery ? of his incarceration for refusal to pay a 
tax, and the reason he gave therefor ? of his ad- 
dresses concerning John Brown? It is true that 
Thoreau abhorred politics, and, in his exaggerated 
way, never spared an opportunity to give vent to 
those views which were regarded by his neighbors 
as stamping him an oddity. But to say that he 
looked with contempt on the " august drama of 
destiny " of which his countrj- was the scene, is 
surely erroneous. For not only did he not look with 
contempt on this drama, but he was an actor in it, 
and an actor of great spirit and earnestnesss. Lowell, 
indeed, has given us his clever " Biglow Papers," 
and may therefore be said to have been more than a 
mere spectator at that memorable performance ; but 
while he was composing congenial drolleries in the 
cosy solitude of his library, while the North was 
seeking compromise, while many even of the most 
pronounced Abolitionists were playing only thinking 
parts, it was Thoreau, the hermit, the skulker, the 
selfish recluse who had no concern for the suffe'rings 
of his fellows, who boldly came to the front and 
championed John Brown — John Brown, the crazy 
man who was so foolish as to *' lose his life for a 
few niggers." " What avail all your scholarly ac- 
complishments and learning," said Thoreau on that 
historic occasion when he addressed the citizens of 
Concord, " compared with wisdom and manhood ? 
To omit his [Brown's] other behavior, see what a 
work this comparatively unread and unlettered man 
wrote within six weeks ! Where is our professor of 
belles-lettres, or of logic and rhetoric, who can write 
so well?" Did this stray shaft lodge in Lowell's 
library ? 

Lowell further says : " Thoreau's shanty life was 
a mere impossibility, as far as his own conception 
of it goes, of an entire independency of mankind," 
and he goes on to say that his experiment actually 



presupposed all that complicated civilization which 
it practically abjured, and triumphantly points out 
that Thoreau squatted on another man's land, bor- 
rowed still another man's axe, and obtained from 
society his boards, his nails, his bricks, his lamp, his 
fishhooks, his plow, his hoe. But would Lowell have 
Thoreau purchase his land ? That would involve 
bargain and sale, the transfer of money, the regis- 
tration of deeds, and other incidentals more nearly 
" presupposing all that complicated civilization " than 
mere squatting. And would Lowell insist that 
Thoreau make his own axe, mix his own mortar, 
bake his own bricks, forge his own plough, and write 
his own library, before he retires to the woods for 
a little contemplation ? It strikes us that the genial 
Lowell is here a little severe on "the adroit and 
philosophic solitaire." It is true that the latter wrote 
by far the larger part of his own library, which he 
playfully says consisted of nearly nine hundred 
volimies, over seven hundred of which he wrote him- 
self ; but it is manifestly too exacting to demand of 
any reasonable anchorite, no matter how profound 
his abjuration of society, that he should return to 
the condition of Adam, and construct his shanty 
without nails, bricks, axe, or mortar. Possibly 
Lowell would insist on the fig-leaf. Other critics, 
like him, disturbed by Thoreau's shanty life, insisted 
that he should return to a state of savagery if he 
would camp out on the pine-clad shore of Walden. 
The axe that he borrowed of Bronson Alcott becomes 
a formidable weapon in their hands, with which they 
would demolish at a blow the " shanty " and the 
whole fanciful structure of domestic economy and 
idealistic philosophy. Thoreau with an axe is a 
humbug. He should retiirn to the stone age, and 
burrow in the earth like a muskrat ; nothing less 
will satisfy the demands of those who would have 
him live up to the very letter of what they conceive 
to be his self-banishment from society. And here 
is how Thoreau, in an anticipative mood, answers 
these cavillers : " It is difficult to begin without bor- 
rowing, but perhaps it is the most generous course 
to permit your fellow-man to have an interest in 
your enterprise." 

It is natural that this retreat to Walden should 
stand out as thie most conspicuous feature of Tho- 
reau's career. It was something new ; the reasons 
he gave for it were novel and stimulating ; it threw 
an atmosphere of picturesque romance about a fig^e 
already sufficiently odd and perplexing. The book 
that he wrote there has an attractive title, and its 
contents are such as to invite many shades of criti- 
cism. Most of the conflicting judgments of Thoreau's 
life and work may be traced to a false conception of 
the Walden episode. The real purpose of this epi- 
sode, it seems to us, is' that Thoreau might have 
leisure and opportunity for his reading, his study of 
nature, his wi'iting, — and a general good time in 
the bargain. "I went into the woods to transact 
some private business," he writes ; and that might 
well end the matter. 



356 



THE DIAL 



[June 1, 



The chief error of many of Thoreau's critics is 
that they fail to detect his humor, his fondness for 
extravagance of statement, his hyperhole. They 
accept him literally. Thoreau should be read through 
his life as well as through his books. Much that he 
writes is written in the effort at paradox. He is a 
confessed exaggerator. There is about him, on the 
surface, a great deal of charming and innocent 
boasting. But it belongs to the surface only. Under- 
neath, we find the loving friend, the often true phi- 
losopher, the preacher, the moralist, the narrator, 
and, above all and saving all, the humorist. As for 
his writings, some persons have compared them to 
the freshness of an ocean breeze. They are more. 
They are like an electric current in a live wire. You 
are liable to be shocked at any moment. But it is 
a stimulating, an inspiring shock. You need not 
read him consecutively," — you need not worry about 
the paradoxes, the exaggerations, the boasting, the 
self-complacency, the false economy. They may all 
be safely taken for the sake of the tonic that goes 
with them. But his humor is the essential thing for 
his critics to perceive. No man can be said to be 
a recluse, to be a misanthrope, to be really in earnest 
in his hyperbolic and paradoxical desire to demolish 
society, who possesses a humor such as Thoreau's. 
This is his supremely genuine quality, and it is the 
quality in him that makes him most human and most 
persuasive. Those who do not find this quality in 
him, read his books in vain. 

Thoreau is too valuable a possession, not only to 
American literature but to all literature, to be dealt 
with in an inappreciative or superficial manner by 
any critic, however witty or brilliant. His is a com- 
plex nature, not readily understood, and it is some- 
times difficult to see with his vision. It is for this 
reason that those who wovJd approach him in a crit- 
ical spirit should approach him with caution and with 
sympathy. His is one of the rare cases known in 
literature where a noble spirit, a witty and inspiring 
mind, and a moral force of g^eat value and attrac- 
tion, have been brought together in one man. Tho- 
reau inspires, charms, and elevates. The reader who 
comes to Thoreau's books in a sympathetic and ap- 
preciative spirit will leave them a better man. He 
will hear sermons without dulness, he will hear 
music without discord, and there will be revealed to 
him a religion that insists on no dogmas or creeds, 
and is wide enough to embrace all sects. "To live 
rightly and never to swerve, and to believe that we 
have in ourselves a drop of the Original Goodness 
besides the well-known deluge of original sin, — 
these strains sing through Thoreau's writings." We 
would not wish every man a Thoreau. Civilization 
has not reached that ideal stage of development when 
it would be other than awkward for all able-bodied 
men to sit, rapt in reverie on the shore of a Walden 
pond, speculating on the character of mists or on the 
immortality of the pine. But we would wish a part 
of Thoreau for every man. 

Gilbert P. Coleman. 



t Mths ^0Oks. 



Tales of a Sportsman-Natitralist.* 



Success, at all hazards and even by any 
method, is the motto attributed to many who to- 
day dominate the fields of finance and industry. 
The arena of hiunan activity seems, for the 
time, not to be a fair field with no favors. In 
these days of the literature of exposure, both 
serious and frenzied, it is refreshing to find one 
field of strenuous endeavor in which the spirit 
of fair-play is cultivated, where gentlemen's 
agreements are honorable and are honored in 
their observance, and where an equal chance is 
an essential feature of the game. 

Much might be said from several points of 
view about the cruelty of the sportsman's art 
and the debasing effect of the needless slaughter 
of animals. Modem arms and ammunition 
have sealed the doom of every animal on the face 
of the earth large enough to become a target, 
imless protective measures are speedily taken. 
But when all is said, the fact remains that the 
blood of the hunter runs in man's veins, and the 
hunting instinct is by no means eradicated by 
the advance of civilization. Since hunt we will 
for the pleasure of it, let us play fair with the 
denizens of field and forest and the finny tribes 
of stream and sea. 

Few men have done as much to develop and 
maintain this spirit of fairness to the him ted as 
Professor Charles Frederick Holder, sportsman- 
naturalist and prince of anglers. His two recent 
works, " The Log of a Sea Angler " and " Life 
in the Open," breathe this spirit of fair play in 
their pages, though neither is a brief for beasts, 
birds, and fishes, nor is there special pleading 
for their cause. The wild goat on the slopes of 
Orizaba must have a fair chance. 

" Hunting is what it is made. One may coop a jack- 
rabbit in a large corral and watch greyhounds run it 
down, and imagine it sport ; so, too, the hunter may 
at times corral the goat of Santa Catalina in some cor- 
ner and slay it without trouble with the aid of a guide, 
who is also seeking minimum physical exertion ; but 
the hunter who will go out into the open and climb the 
crags of the big mountains or peaks will, I venture to 
say, in the majority of instances, have hunting and 
climbing that would be considered aU sufficient if for 
' wild goat ' had been substituted the term < big-horn.' 
' What 's m a name ? ' " 

To Mr. Holder is due the credit for the 

•The Log of a Ska Anglkb. By €harles Frederick Holder. 
Boston : Hou«rhton, Mifflin & Co. 

LiPB IN THE Open. Sport with Rod, Qun, Horse, and Hound 
in Southern California. B7 Charles Frederick Holder. Illus- 
trated in photogravure, etc. New York : G. P. Putnam's Sons. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



367 



organization of the famous Tuna Club of Santa 
Catalina, whose influence has been such that 
nowhere in the world does a higher standard of 
sport prevail than on the famous fishing-grounds 
of Southern California. 

" It was this capture, and the unsportsmanlike condi- 
tions of fishing at the island, which caused me to sug- 
gest the organization of the Tuna Club. The splendid 
fishes of the region, yellowtaU, white sea-bass, and 
others, were being slaughtered by the ton. How to 
stop it was the question, and I conceived the idea of 
an appeal to the innate sense of fair play that is foimd 
among nearly all anglers. I suggested the Tuna Club 
' for the protection of the game fishes of Southern 
California,' and a constitution and by-laws that would 
permit the mse of lines up to twenty-four thread only 
and light rods, with the condition that every angler 
must land his own fish. Some of the best known 
anglers in the coimtry joined the movement, a club 
without a club house, and I was honored with the 
presidency. The result was remarkable. The example 
of these gentlemen was so potent that hand-line fishing 
was abolished, and I doubt if any hand-lines can be 
found at Santa Catalina to-day. With a rope-like hand- 
line, a twenty-five pound yellowtail can be landed in one 
minute, or possibly two; but with a rod and a thread- 
like line, from a nine to a twenty-one thread, it is a 
matter of fifteen or thirty minutes, and fifty per cent of 
the game escapes." 

Aside from its incidental but none the less 
potent value as a document on the ethics of 
sport, '• The Log of a Sea Angler " is a well- 
spun yarn, or rather a series of yams, in which 
the author's angling experiences are reeled off 
in such an entertaining fashion that we instinct- 
ively look up our fishing tackle and plan at 
once for an outing at the shore. The author 
has cast his line in many waters, from Maine to 
Cuba, but more especially off Loggerhead Key 
in Florida, and in the unsurpassed paradise of 
anglers off Avalon and the adjacent waters of 
Southern California. He i^ no conventional 
fisherman, but employs all the tackle known to 
the craft, — not only the rod, reel, and line, but 
the spear and grains. Nor is he limited in his 
quest to fish of wide repute ; but any denizen 
of the deep whose wariness, strength, or agility 
can test himian patience or endurance is added 
to the list of game fishes. Thus turtles, sharks, 
and rays, and even the devil-fish, are not safe 
when ]VIr. Holder goes a-fishing. 

The author's records as a naturalist are both 
interesting and valuable, though an occasional 
statement of fact or inference is open to criti- 
cism, — as, for example, his report that jellyfish 
are the natural food of whalebone whales ! Li 
the main, keen observation of nature's secrets, 
and wide experience with the sea and its life, 
are revealed in these angler's tales, and there is 
an occasional bit of spirited wTiting as well. 



" On nearing the school, the fishes become more dis- 
tinct and the splendid spectacle is afforded of large tunas 
feeding. A stretch of perhaps twenty acres is a mass 
of foam. Some of the fish are playing along the sur- 
face, churning the blue water into silver. Some are 
leaping high into the air, going up like arrows, eight or 
more feet. The boatman is bearing off and is several 
feet ahead, but suddenly slows down to half-speed. Big 
flying-fishes are speeding away in every direction, a foot 
or more above the water, looking like gigantic dragon- 
flies. Now the bait is in the line of march of the school. 
The boatman stands like a statue, his hand on the little 
engine, ready to stop and reverse. Suddenly he whis- 
pers, * Look out, sir! ' his voice hoarse with what should 
be suppressed excitement, and two or three flying-fishes 
cross the exact location of the baits. He knows that a 
nemesis, one or more, is directly behind. Then comes 
a rush of something, a blaze of silvery foam along the 
surface, tossing the spume high in air, and two rods are 
jerked to the water's edge, while the reel gives tongue 
in clear vibrant notes like the melody of an old hound 
that one angler had known in the Virginia fox-himting 
country long ago." 

The other new book by Mr. Holder, " Life 
in the Open," is in the main, as its sub-title 
suggests, a record of sport with rod, gun, horse, 
and hound, in Southern California, — a spirited 
account of the hunt for hare, wolf, lynx, and fox 
in the foot-hills of the Sierra Madre, and of the 
deer, bighorn, and mountain lion amid the crags 
and precipices of the Southern Sierras. While 
most of the chapters tell of the author's personal 
experience in the sport, we search in vain for it 
in the chapter on the moimtain lion. The cur- 
tain rises revealing the stage, the magnificent 
panorama of forest, mountain, and sea, but 
alas ! where is Hamlet ? Indeed, the whole book 
is an enthusiastic panegyric of this summer- 
land, this Italy of America, with a few inci- 
dental remarks about the fine sport to be had 
amidst beautiful scenery in a matchless climate. 
But after all, what matters it, if the lion was not 
found ? The s^xch for him, however, was a 
roundrof delights. 

A nimiber of pages are devoted to the varied 
sport which the angler finds with tuna, black 
sea-bass, and yellowtail, with deep-sea trolling 
and still-anglmg off the shores of Southern 
California and its adjacent islands, and with the 
trout of the clear mountain streams of the Coast 
Range and of the high Sierras. The work is 
superbly illustrated wath many reproductions 
from photographs of scenery, the old missions of 
California, and fishing scenes about Avalon on 
famous Santa Catalina Island. Not all of the 
subjects are pertinent to the professed theme of 
the book, but they nevertheless contribute to the 
enjoyment of its pages, and afford the setting 
indispensable to an adequate appreciation of the 



358 



THE DIAL 



[June 1, 



attractions of our American paradise. The 
charm of the work lies in its spirited and 
enthusiastic appreciation of out-of-door life, of 
the possibilities of enjoyment of nature, even 
though one go a-hunting or a-fishing. It woidd 
make a gdod docimient for the ubiquitous Cali- 
fornia Promotion Committee. 

Charles Atwood Kofoid. 



The Amebica^t Tree Book.* 



Among recent popular publications treating 
of the natural world. Miss Rogers's "Tree Book" 
takes high rank. It is one of the fruits of efforts 
recently made to bring the literature of popular 
science and nature-study to a sane and solid basis. 
While not an avowed nature-study book, it will 
inevitably supplant in part the less desirable 
literature on that subject, and wiU materially 
reinforce that which is good. It will be more 
particidarly welcomed, however, by those who 
love trees and forests, as weU as by those who 
take a purely practical view of their care and 
preservation. The author comes to her work 
with excellent training, long experience, and, 
above all, a healthy and infectious enthusiasm 
for the subject ; and these qualities are abimd- 
antly shown throughout the volume, which gives 
evidence of wide observation and extensive read- 
ing. The style is pleasing and popular, while 
on the whole the work is scientifically accurate. 

The greater part of the book (about 450 
pages) is given to the various groups of native 
and introduced forest trees, which are considered 
in separate chapters. Much valuable informa- 
tion is given, not only concerning identity of 
species, but their habits, distribution, and culti- 
vation as well. A key to the principal families 
of trees, and separate keys fdi* the species in 
each family, wiU be of assistance even to the in- 
experienced layman ; while the numerous illus- 
trations are well grouped to bring the details of 
each species together. Valuable hints concerning 
the usefulness of various species of trees are 
given in connection with the specific descriptions, 
and this feature wiU be appreciated especially 
by those who cultivate trees. However, it is 
evident that this part of the book is written 
largely from the Eastern standpoint, although 
the author is not without Western experience. 
Thus, those who have seen the solitary cotton- 
wood grow to symmetrical proportions out on 
the wind-swept prairies will scarcely agree that 



• The Tree Book. By J»ili» E. Rosrers. 
etc. New York: Doubleday, Pa«e&Co. 



Illustrated in color, 



the " brittle wood cannot withstand the winds," 
or that this species is more useful in the city 
than in the open country. Nor will we of the 
West feel like accepting the pleasant words 
which the author bestows upon the Lombardy 
poplar. It should also be noted that the com- 
mendation of the Western catalpa as a tree 
suitable for planting in the West applies only 
to the region south of central Iowa. The white 
pine, while useful northeastward, is not the best 
pine for the prairies, both Scotch and Austrian 
pines being more suitable, and the latter pre- 
ferable where it can be started under proper 
protection. The bur-oak should not have been 
singled out as suitable for planting on the prai- 
ries, as several other species of trees are much 
more satisfactory. 

The useful glossary will assist the average 
reader in understanding more technical terms, 
but greater care should have been exercised in 
defining some of these terms. Thus, the term 
pericarp should apply only to the outer walls of 
the ovary ; resin is not restricted to the wood 
of conifers ; stomata are often found on the 
upper side of the leaf, and on twigs ; the term 
terete refers not only to cylindrical forms, but 
applies to all elongated forms which are circular 
in cross-section ; and flower-clusters other than 
cymes are flat-topped. Notwithstanding these 
and other minor errors, however, the first part 
of this delightful volume will be of great assist- 
ance to aU who have a real desire to learn to 
know trees. 

Part II. is devoted to Forestry ; and this por- 
tion of the work will be especially valuable in 
view of the increasing interest in this subject, 
which will no doubt be further stimulated by 
this book. A great amount of information is 
here presented in clear and concise form. The 
several chapters deal successively with the his- 
tory of forestry in our country ; Ivunbering pro- 
cesses in the East ; profitable tree-planting ; the 
farmer's wood-lot ; the transplanting of trees ; 
the method of midtiplication and dispersal ; the 
methods of measuring trees ; the pruning of 
trees ; and the enemies of trees. The amateur 
tree-grower will receive many valuable hints and 
directions in these chapters, and the reader who 
seeks general information will find it here in 
attractive form. The chapter on profitable tree- 
planting is especially pleasing because it is hope- 
ful. Some modifications of the chapter on 
transplanting trees would, however, be necessary 
for the drier portions of the central West, where 
a dense shallow root-system endangers the tree 
during both dry winters and summers. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



359 



Part III. is devoted to the discussioA of the 
products of the forest. The uses and methods 
of finishing woods are considered, and the meth- 
ods of wood-preservation, and of the manufacture 
of wood-paper pulp, are described. The several 
subjects are treated very happily, but one regrets 
that the author did not more severely condemn 
the evils of the Christmas-tree traffic. 

Part IV., which describes the life of the tree, 
concludes the text of the book. A popular dis- 
cussion of plant physiology is always unsatis- 
factory, and to some extent this is true of the 
part under consideration. The author describes 
the work of the leaves ; the growth of the tree ; 
the fall of the leaves ; and the winter condition 
of trees. Since microscopic structure cannot be 
exactly set forth in a work of this character, it 
follows that much of the discussion of functions 
cannot be clear. This is especially true, in the 
present case, of the fimctions of the green leaves, 
and of the part played by various cells of the 
sap-wood in the transportation of sap and the 
storing of starch. Neither is it possible to make 
clear the structure of wood, or the changes which 
take place in leaves in the fall. The propriety 
of certain positive statements concerning the 
functions of structures which are not yet well 
understood may be questioned. This is espe- 
cially true of the statements made concerning 
the fimctions of lenticels. There is no doubt 
that these structures will transmit gases under 
pressure, but their exact function is by no means 
clear, and positive statements concerning such 
mooted questions are better omitted from popu- 
lar works. 

The Appendix is also worthy of mention, for 
it contains a great amount of condensed special 
information concerning trees, and will be found 
both interesting and valuable. The mechanical 
appearance of the volume is very satisfactory, 
though a imrform background for each plate 
would have produced a more pleasing effect. 
The minor errors to which attention has been 
called do not materially diminish the value of 
the book, which must prove a source of inspi- 
ration and encouragement to everyone who 
loves and appreciates trees. 

BOHNMIL ShIMEK. 



Gardex Blooms axd Ways.* 



" PoEMS~OF Italy," published at the Grafton Press, 
is a small volume of translations from Sig^or Carducci, 
made, introduced, and annotated by Mr. M. W. Arms. 
There are only a half dozen pieces In the collection, all 
selected from " Odi Barbare," but none of them paral- 
leled in Mr. Frank Sewall's volume of translations from 
the greatest of living Italians. 



It has long been an article of faith with the 
present reviewer, that if a gardener or a garden- 
lover could not be named Adam he must be 
called John. Nor is the reason for this fancy 
far to seek. Of late, it is true that many women 
have entered the lists of that delightful tourna- 
ment in which the rival claims of plants and 
plantings are jousted for ; but the great old 
garden-books written by the great old sons of 
" the grand old gardener and his wife " were 
nearly all written by men called John, — John 
Gerarde, John Parkinson, John Ray, John 
Evelyn, John Tradescant, and all that goodly 
fellowship. It is with much satisfaction, there- 
fore, that the author of " The Wild Flowers of 
Selbome " is found to have a baptismal right in 
the brotherhood, since his book belongs on the 
shelves which theirs have adorned for so many 
years. It can have no higher praise, as the 
Reverend John Vaughn could have asked for 
no fairer field for his labors and no higher 
theme for his pen than he found in following 
the footsteps of White of Selborne. The Rev- 
erend Gilbert White, as all the world knows, 
and has been glad to know for a century and a 
third, A\Tote a most charming chronicle of the 
out-of-door life which flowed like a quiet stream 
about his church and his rectory. For years 
we have known (in spirit) the paths through 
Wolmer Forest to Wolmer Pond, — down the 
" hoUow lanes " to Alton and the old Priory by 
Lyth side ; we have known the way to the 
beautiful Hanger of beech trees, through which 
the gentle bachelor walked, with his quiet ob- 
servant eyes and his peaceful thoughts : and we 
have looked on the fields over which the night- 
jars flew in the twilight. It is, therefore, as if 
we were revisiting old scenes and meeting old 
friends when we pore over the delightful pages 
in which Mr. Vaughn tells us of his observa- 
tions in this classic soil. We are glad to know 
that so many of the plants that Gilbert White 
knew still haunt the old places and still open 
their blossoms to the Selborne skies. We are' 
glad to learn that so many old customs still 
obtain there, and that, even in this day of ad- 
vanced medicine and surgery, people there be 
who still cling to the " simples " dear to their 
great-grandsires. Chapters on Izaak Walton 

• The Wild Flowebs of Selborne. By John Vaa^hn, M.A., 
Rector of Droxford and Canon of Winchester. New York: 
John Lane Co. 

Common-Sense Gabdens. By Cornelius V. V. Sewell. New 
York: The Grafton Press. •' 

The Seasons in a Floweb-Gabden. By Looise Shelton; 
New York: Charles Scribner's Sons. 



360 



THE DIAL 



[June 1, 



were almost sure to be found in any volume 
written by a rector of Droxford, who is Canon 
of Winchester as well ; and it would have been 
no less impossible for him to leave out the 
pages about Jane Austen at Lyme, Dean Rich- 
mond, and the Isle of Wight. The chapter on 
the Early Botanists of Essex belongs to the 
book as a matter of course. What we have to 
be especially thankfid for are the accounts of 
the Ancient Market Towne of Titchfield, and 
the salty breezes of the chronicles of Port- 
chester. The literary charm of the book is 
marked, and it is altogether a work of distinc- 
tion and value. 

In " Common-Sense Gardens," by Mr. Cor- 
nelius V. V. Sewell, we enter a world of far 
less scholarly interest, but of the practical value 
we need if we woidd avoid the cruel disappoint- 
ments that so often befall him who plants with 
more zeal than knowledge. Two points in this 
excellent and amply illustrated book are worthy 
of especial notice, — the author's praises of 
Box, and his pictures of enclosed gardens. If 
one has had the good fortune to live with alleys 
of Box older than the Republic ; has inhaled the 
imforgettable odor of this imperial shrub during 
long hot simuner days, and has watched its 
mysterious affinities with frost and snow, one 
has learned that no plant can strike its roots so 
deep in the heart, or fill so large a place in the 
memory. To plant Box, not wholly for our- 
selves, but for those who shall walk " in far-off 
summers that we shall not see, " this is an act 
of high civic virtue. And as one knows the 
value of Box only by living with it, so no one 
can imagine the delights of an enclosed garden 
who has not owned one. Mr. Sewell demurs at 
the idea of its seclusion as im- American and out 
of sympathy with true democracy. A little 
more reserve, a little more dignity, a little less 
of parade, even of our roses, — surely if these 
much-needed lessons can be taught by a well- 
clipped hedge, a brick wall gadded over by roses, 
or even by a wire netting overgrown by morn- 
ing-glories, they are doubly worth the learning. 

In " The Seasons in a Flower Garden," Miss 
Louise Shelton has given us a practical and 
pleasant garden manual. The directions are 
clearly worded, well grouped, and reasonable — 
a quality not too often to be found among such 
books. The lists omit many important plants, 
and include others not generally regarded as 
desirable. For a small garden and a young 
gardener, the book will render the real service 
for which it was written. 

Sara Andrew Shafer. 



Travels by Sea and liAND.* 



We are inclined to disagree with those who 
assert that the instinct to travel is the lowest 
mental incentive that urges mankind to seek 
strange lands and new sights. Moreover, we 
believe that this migratory or nomadic instinct, 
this wanderlust, has a distinct literary value. 
How tasteless is a book of travels that recounts 
with statistical dryness the dull catalogue of 
common things found in a venturesome journey ! 
Darwin, among the scientists, in his " Voyage 
of the Beagle," Henry M. Stanley among the 
great explorers, and Mrs. Bishop among those 
who travel for descriptive material, had this 
instinct and managed to impart a goodly share 
of it to their books. Nor is this instinct con- 
fined to the records of actual travel. Nowhere 
can it be found to better advantage than in 
" Robinson Crusoe " and " Gulliver's Travels." 
On the other hand, we miss this wander-spirit 
in many otherwise commendable books. Long- 
fellow's " Outre Mer," Hawthorne's note-books 
of travel, Holmes's " Our Hundred Days in 
Europe," Emerson's "English Traits," — to 
limit our list to books by Americans, — are 
lacking in this zest of the human desire to go 
a-wandering. Certainly so good a traveller and 
writer as the author of " Travels with a Donkey " 
and " An Inland Voyage " would not make the 
spirit of travel a minor motive in mankind or 
a minimum literary force in books of travel. 

Nowhere is this spirit more apparent than in 
books dealing with the attempts to find the two 
poles of the earth. The great sums of money, 
the sacrifice of life, the rivalry of the nations, 
and the undying energy exhibited, are sufficient 
evidence that mankind is prompted to seek the 
imknown in order to satisfy a powerful human 
passion. Indomitable courage, the will to do, 
and the endurance of heart-breaking hardships, 
characterize those men who would discover a 
point of zero in the earth's latitude and longi- 
tude. Such is the spirit that infuses the \avid 
and instructive book entitled " The Siege of the 
South Pole," by Dr. Hugh R. Mill. Dr. MiU, 

• The Siege of the South Pole. By Hugh B. Mill. Illus- 
trated. New York : Frederick A. Stokes Co. 

Ten Thousand Milbs in a Yacht. By Richard Arthur. 
Illustrated. New York : E. P. Dutton & Co. 

Benares, the Holy City. By E. B. Hayell. Illustrated. 
London : Blackie & Son, Limited. 

Through India with the Prince. By G. F. Abbott. Illus- 
trated. New York: Lonsrmana, Green, & Co. 

Three Men in a Motor Car. By Winthrop £. Scarritt. 
Illustrated. New York : E. P. Dutton & Co. 

Down in Porto Rico. By Georgre Milton Fowles. Illus- 
trated. New York : Eaton & Mains. 

Travels of a Natitralist in Northern Europe. By J. A 
Harvie-Brown. Illustrated. New York : A. Wessels Co. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



361 



who admits that he has never been within two 
thousand mil^ of the Antarctic Circle, has had 
the rare fortune " to possess the personal friend- 
ship of all, or almost all, the living explorers 
and promoters of exploration in the Antarctic 
Regions.'' He can, consequently, give a per- 
sonal touch to his summary of Antarctic travel. 
His volume is very complete in its descrip- 
tions of all the efforts that have been made 
to reach the South Pole. AVe find a good sum- 
mary of the earlier voyages which fell short of 
the Circle ; then we read at great length of the 
noteworthy voyages from the time of Cook, in 
1772, down to our own time, — to the voyages 
of Scott, Drygalski, Nordenskjold, Bruce, and 
Charcot. Nearly all of these explorers left 
personal records of their trips ; but many of their 
accounts, especially those between the voyages 
of the "Resolution " in 1772 and the " Chal- 
lenger '' in 1874, are now out of print or are 
difficult to consult. This is notably true of 
Admiral Bellingshausen's story of his voyage 
and discoveries, made in 1819-21, and hitherto 
accessible only in the Russian language and in 
a Grerman translation made in 1902. For these 
reasons, Dr. Mill's book is a very acceptable 
contribution to the literature of exploration at 
the South Pole. That •' the siege of the South 
Pole has been a spasmodic operation, proceeding 
by magnificent efforts separated by long inter- 
vals of inertness and inattention," and that each 
fresh expedition had to begin at the beginning, 
acquiring its own experience by repeating the 
errors of its predecessors, is only too evident in 
reading this volume. Dr. Mill, however, is not 
pessimistic about the ultimate discovery of the 
South Pole. Soon, probably within the first 
quarter of the present century, some explorer, 
the author thinks, will wipe " the reproach of 
Terra Incognita from the surface of our little 
globe." Our space forbids our making even 
the briefest summary of a book that is intended 
to be a compact handbook. VTe do not hesi- 
tate to say, however, that Dr. ^Mill's book does 
for Antarctic exploration what General A. W. 
Greely's '• Handbook of Arctic Discoveries " 
does for the history of exploration at the North 
Pole, and that it does it equally well. 

After the somewhat heavy but wholesome fare 
of Dr. Mill's volume, one relishes the slighter 
and more superficial quality of Mr. Richard 
Arthur's "Ten Thousand Miles in a Yacht." 
Ten men and a lad left New York in November, 
1904, in the palatial j-acht " Virginia," cap- 
tained by Mr. E. C. Benedict; they visited 



Bermuda, sailed "across the tropical sapphire 
seas, along the palm-fringed Carribean island- 
coasts," touching at Dominica, Martinique, 
Santa Lucia, Barbadoes, and thence passed up 
the Amazon for a thousand miles, past Para 
and Santarem to Manaos, where they remained 
a week, thence voyaging back along the coasts 
of South America to Jamaica and Havana, and 
finally, on January 30, 1905, they dropped 
anchor in East River in " Little Old New 
York." We hare chosen the following ex- 
cerpts as revealing the better quality of the book. 

" Many optiinistic people look forward to the time 
when the Amazon country will be thickly populated, 
and prosperous plantations will occupy the riyer front 
on each side for thousands of miles. I am aware that 
it is generally as rash a thing to foretell what will not 
happen as to predict what will happen ; but I cannot 
see in the future the thick population and the prosperous 
'plantations that have been prophesied. There certainly 
will be development on the higher lands ; but on the 
lower Amazon, for some hundreds of miles, there seems 
little prospect of reclaiming the alluvial flats from the 
grip of the river. A great deal of this land is sub- 
merged in the high-river season, and if the forest were 
stripped from it the river would eat it up like so much 
salt." 

Here is a fish story : 

" It was the evening of January 5, about 10 o'clock. 
The yacht was gliding through the sea at nearly fifteen 
knots an hour and rolling about twenty-five degrees. 
One of the stewards was sitting in the dining room. 
He was dozing and dreaming — doubtless of the girl 
he left behind. Suddenly he was awakened by some- 
thing swishing through the open window, over his right 
shoulder close to his face. Before he could open his 
eyes he heard the flop of something weighty on the 
floor beneath the dining-room table, and then, to his 
amazement, he saw the gleaming back of a good-sized, 
tail-flapping all-alive-o fish. A brother steward was 
immediately summoned, and then nearly the whole 
crew, and the fish was duly measured and weighed. 
The official report made him 2 feet 3 inches long and 
gave him 3^ pounds avoirdupois. He certainly made 
a famous leap to get out of the sea into the dining 
room." 

One of the best features of the volume is the 
introduction, written by Mr. William M. Ivins. 
Mr. Ivins, who has business interests in Brazil, 
and has made other trips to that country, is 
evidently well informed about the land and the 
people — so well, indeed, that some readers may 
wish that the author and the introductory writer 
had exchanged places. 

Benares has always had a strangely fasci- 
nating interest for travellers in Lidia. The 
reason is apparent : there is seen, in all its 
degradation and splendor, the microcosm of 
Tnflian religious life. To know all the ramifica- 
tions of this life, with its three hundred million 



362 



THE DIAL 



[June 1, 



deities, is probably beyond the psychology of 
the ordinary western mind. Hence one ap- 
preciates a calm, dispassionate, well-ordered, 
and studious unravelling of the labyrinth of 
Hindu life and religion. Principal E. B. Havell, 
of the Government School of Art at Calcutta, 
has done this in a masterly manner in his book 
entitled " Benares, the Sacred City." We read 
in his book about the Vedic times, the great 
Hindu epics, the latest discoveries at Samath 
the birthplace of Buddhism, the rise of modern 
Hinduism, and, at more length, of the worship 
of Shiva, the presiding deity of Benares. We 
voyage with him along the Granges river, seeing 
the wonderfid rites and ceremonies of the 
bathers, visiting the ghats and temples — of 
which there are over fifteen hundred, — and 
making the pilgrimages to the various holy 
places. No part of his interesting book is more 
graphic and picturesque than the following 
account of one of the Hindu festivals : 

" The most beautiful of all the latter is the Diwali, 
or Feast of Lamps, in honor of Lakshmi, the goddess 
of Fortune. In the evening, when the short Eastern 
gloaming is merging into night, numbers of girls and 
young women, graceful as Greek nymphs in their many- 
coloured saris, come silently down to the ghats, bearing 
little earthen lamps, which they light and carefully set 
afloat. Then with eager faces they watch them carried 
away on the rippling surface of the water, still shimmer- 
ing with opalescent tints from the last rays of the after- 
glow. For if a tiny wavelet should upset the frail craft, 
or if the light should flicker and go out, it bodes mis- 
fortune in the coming year. But if the light bums 
strong and well, till the lamp is borne far away by the 
current in midstream, happiness is in store for her who 
launched it on the waters. By the time the twilight 
fades there are himdreds of twinkling lights dotted over 
the river, as if holy Ganga had borrowed the stars from 
heaven, whence she came, to adorn her earthly robes." 

Principal Havell, in closing his book, says : 
" No doubt Hinduism will continue to be modi- 
fied by the inflow of Western ideas. There can 
be no greater mistake than to consider Hinduism 
as so many immutable customs and forms of 
ritual and belief, which may be uprooted, but 
cannot be trained or adapted." The volimie is 
well illustrated with appropriate pictures — pic- 
tures that assist the text. 

Mr. G. F. Abbott's book entitled " Through 
India with the Prince " covers the whole country 
and touches on every imaginable topic that India 
offers to a writer. As special correspondent for 
the Calcutta " Statesman," a journal of which 
he has for some years been editor, the author 
accompanied their Royal Highnesses the Prince 
and Princess of Wales on their recent Indian 
tour. The royal party travelled north from 



Bombay to Jaipur, Lahore, Peshawar ; thence, 
turning east and south, they visited Amritsar, 
Delphi, Agra, Lucknow, and Calcutta, whence 
they sailed to Burma, where they stopped at 
Rangoon and Mandalay, thence back to Madras, 
and then, turning north again, they visited 
Hyderabad, Benares, Nepal, and finally, cut^ 
ting across northern India, after a stop at Simla, 
they departed from the country at Karachi. 
Though we give the route of the royal party, 
we do not wish to imply that Mr. Abbott's 
book is mainly concerned with the doings and 
receptions that were everywhere held in honor 
of the visit of the royal pair. On the contrary, 
it gives but little more than a decent amount 
of attention to the many durbars of the native 
princes, and still less attention to the Prince and 
Princess of Wales. As the royal party did not 
remain long at any one place, we need not wonder 
that the author's descriptions are at times rather 
blase and thin. The Taj Mahal at Agra receives 
this comment : "It makes me think of Euclid, 
or of a toy-shop. The Taj seems to me to need 
a glass case." The volume records a traveller's 
impressions, marked by a certain quality of 
mixed cynicism, acerbity, and egotism. Such 
sentences as the following are not infrequent in 
the book : " They [tigers] never attack human 
beings so long as they can obtain a respectable 
animal "; and, " after all, death is only one of 
the minor tragedies of life." The want of de- 
scriptive power and the too pronounced personal 
note are the two blemishes that detract from 
the main value of the book, which is found in the 
writer's comments and observations on the polit- 
ical status of India. On this subject he is sotmd 
and earnest, although his views are probably not 
in accord with government views and reports. 
Mr. Abbott asserts that the British Government 
in India has failed to earn the love of the peo- 
ple, and that, if the present government is to 
hold, it must niake concessions to the natives. 
On this point, while in Hyderabad, he wrote : 

" The only condition of success — the condition on 
the observance of which depends the very permanence 
of the British Empire in India — is sincere cooperation 
between the Englishman and the native ; and as the 
native becomes more and more educated he is entitled 
to a greater and yet greater share in the government 
of his own country. The example of a native state like 
Baroda brilliantly proves that the talent for self-gov- 
ernment is not a monopoly of the West. The moral 
qualities and the material means necessary for_the work 
are quite as plentiful in the East." 

But, says the author, self-government for India, 
as well as many other Western ideas, is yet 
very distant. The photographic reproductions 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



363 



in the book are the best we have seen of Indian 
sights for some time. 

"It is a curious fact that, notwithstanding 
our boasted nineteenth-century progress in meth- 
ods, discovery, and invention, up to the coming 
of the motor-car man had made absolutely no 
progress since the dawn of history in the trans- 
portation of the individual vmit of society." 
These words, challenging us to a debate, intro- 
duce us to the spirited and enthusiastic account 
of a confirmed automobilist, who, with two 
equally enthusiastic and joUy companions, made 
a motor-car trip through England, thence across 
to Paris by way of Rouen, to Lucerne by way 
of Basle, Switzerland, to Geneva, and then back 
to Paris through Aix-les-Bains. Mr. Winthrop 
E. Scarritt, a former President of the Automo- 
bile Club of America, tells the story of this trip 
very well in his little volume entitled "■ Three 
Men in a Motor Car," although he adds nothing 
to our stock of information about the places he 
visited. The intrinsic ^*alue of the book lies in 
the specific information that he gives to other 
automobilists as to how to " do " Europe in a 
motor-car. We learn, for example, that there is 
an automobile bureau in Paris, in London, and 
in Stuttgardt, where an automobilist may have 
every want supplied and every petty foreign 
interference removed. Much of the book, in 
fact nearly one-haK, is given to a considera- 
tion of the future automobile, automobile legis- 
lation, good roads, automobile contests, and other 
like subjects dear to the automobilist. After 
reading !Mr. Scarritt's volume, one can readily 
agree with those charming writers on the auto- 
mobile, C. N. and A. M. Williamson, who write 
the introduction to this book, when they say, 
*' It is the deliberate opinion of all who have 
tried it, that life can offer few more vivid joys 
than a tour in a motor-car through a beautifid 
country." 

Although Mr. George ^lilton Fowles, the 
author of the book entitled *' Down in Porto 
Rico," disclaims to write in a spirit of adverse 
criticism, the shadow is more pronounced than 
the light in his sununary of observations based 
on a year's residence in the island. His account, 
moreover, is marked by a strong religious bias. 
He believes that the ultimate regeneration of the 
Porto Ricans must come through the Protestant 
religion. There is, to be sure, some truth in this 
last statement ; but that it is the whole truth is 
not so evident. We believe tha# the author 
makes a far more important observation when 
he \^Tites : 



" If the people learn to read American literature and 
come to know our ideals of national life, if they are able 
to converse in an intelligent manner with the American 
officials and citizens who reside in Porto Rico, it will not 
be long until this people shall be thoroughly American." 

For this reason the author believes that English 
instead of Spanish should be the basic language 
used in the schools. Among other changes that 
are needed, or are being made, the author cites 
the separation of Church and State, the " rapidly 
rising moral tone of family life," the increasing 
trade with the United States, the change of senti- 
ment toward manual labor, and the establishment 
of the rights of American citizenship. For those 
who have read but little about Porto Rico, Mr. 
Fowles 's book will give much detailed informa- 
tion concerning the mental, physical, and spirit- 
ual characteristics of the Porto Ricans, and 
about the educational, economic, and political 
conditions of the island. The book also contains 
a sufficient amount of historical background to 
help to explain many of the existing conditions. 

Thoreau once boasted of the treasures he 
found on the barren sands of a desolate creek. 
A similar spirit pervades and animates Mr. J. A. 
Harvie-Brown's two- volume work bearing the 
title " Travels of a Natiualist in Europe." The 
region of the author's trips lies in Norway, and 
in extreme northeastern Russia at Archangel, 
near the Dvina Delta, and at Petchora, near 
the Arctic Circle. An unnsual feature of the 
book is the fact that it recounts the travels of 
the author made as long ago as 1871, 1872, 
and 1875. The publication of the author's 
journal at this late date is but scantily justified 
by " the very antiquity of the relation." The 
real purpose and value of the book, however, 
lie in the observations of the author and his 
companions on bird and animal life, — obser- 
vations that are minutely correct and scientific, 
and will be of interest to those deeply versed in 
bird and animal lore. Here and there are 
minor observations and reflections on the 
natives and their modes of living. One appen- 
dix is devoted to the Samoyedes of exta^me 
northern Russia. An excerpt will illustrate 
the spirit and purpose of the book. The 
naturalists were anxious to find specimens and 
eggs of the Little Stint and the Grey Plover. 
One day, so says the author : " Seebohni had 
grand success, returning shortly after me, and 
with a triiunphant thump laid on the table, first 
a Grey Plover, then a Snow Bunting ; . . . 
lastly, and most triumphantly — hurrah ! — five 
Little Stints, long looked for, found at last." 
Such a spirit of discovery of small things has 



364 



THE DIAL 



[June 1, 



almost a kinship with Columbus's first sight of 
land, Sverdrup's view of a new land, or Bal- 
boa's long-wished-for vision of the Pacific. All 
the discoveries and observations made by the 
author have been tabulated and arranged in 
order. The volumes are well printed, and well 
illustrated with colored plates necessary to a 
complete understanding of the text. 

H. E. COBLENTZ. 



Recent Fictiok.* 



♦* The Portreeve " is as good a book as any that 
Mr. Eden Phillpotts has thus far written, although 
it does not bring to us the sense of novelty. The 
Dartmoor coloring and the types of rustic character 
which appear in its pages are essentially the same as 
in his previous books, for which reason we are 
unable to discover in the new novel anything but a 
variation upon a well-worn theme. Possibly the 
grip of character is somewhat stronger, the depiction 
of elemental passion more intense, and the tragic 
plot more inevitably logical. The hero is an agri- 
culturist and petty official of local importance, well 
on the way toward prosperity, who is made little 
more than an outcast by the rancor of a scorned 
woman and eventually a murderer by the desperate 
passions which his unmerited reverses arouse. The 
story is thus sombre enough in outline, but the gloom 
is somewhat relieved by the humors of the subsidiary 
characters, and by the quaint forms of speech that 
the author seems to icnow so intimately. Certainly, 
as we have remarked before, Mr. Phillpotts comes 
nearer than anyone else to being the legitimate suc- 
cessor of Mr. Hardy as a rustic realist, and he has 
a considerable measure of the imaginative power 
which can invest a simple passionate complication 
with the severe attributes of high tragedy. 

•The Portreeve. By Eden Phillpotts. New York: The 
Macmillan Co. 

" If Youth But Knew ! " By Agnes and Egerton Castle. 
New York : The Macmillan Co. 

The Spoilers. By Rex E. Beach. New York: Harper & 
Brothers. 

Alton of Somasco. A Romance of the Great Northwest. By 
Harold Bindloss. New York : Frederick A. Stokes Co. 

The Kentuckian. A Thrilling Tale of Ohio Life in the Early 
Sixties. By James Ball Naylor. Boston : C. M. Clark Publish- 
ing Co. 

Lady Baltimore. By Owen Wister. New York : The Mac- 
millan Co. 

The Private War. By Louis Joseph Vance. New York : 
D. Appleton & Co. 

The Mayor of Warwick. By Herbert M. Hopkins. Boston : 
Houghton, Mifflin & Co. 

Lucy of the Stars. By Frederick Palmer. New York: 
Charles Scribner's Sons. 

The Princess Olga. By Ervin Wardman. New York: 
Harper & Brothers. 

The Genius. By Margaret Potter. New York: Harper & 
Brothers. 

Randvar the Sonosmith. A Romance of Norumbega. By 
Ottilie A. Liljencrantz. New York : Harper & Brothers. 

A Motor Car Divorce. By Louise Closser Hale. New York : 
Dodd, Mead & Co. 

The Truth about Tolna. By Bertha Runkle. New York : 
The Century Co. 



Joyous romance beckons to us from the pages of 
« If Youth But Knew ! " To say that this book is 
the work of Mr. and Mrs. Egerton Castle is to 
provide it with a certain passport to the affections 
of the public, for these writers have, more than most 
of their contemporaries, the power to command 
smiles and tears commingled, and to transport us 
into the rapturous regions of delight. The new book 
is one of their best. It has a historical setting, for it 
takes us to the toy Kingdom of Westphalia and the 
imitation Paris established at Cassel by the puppet 
prince who ruled there by grace of his imperial 
brother until the battle of Leipzig put an end to the 
whole artificial arrangement. The story is one of 
love, wounded pride, and reconciliation, the destinies 
of the lovers being shaped by a vagabond fiddler 
who befriends them, and who is in reality a French 
emigrS of gentle birth and tragic fortune. It is a 
story throbbing with life, instinct with poetic feel- 
ing, and bearing the stamp of a creative power that 
is closely akin to genius. 

Mr. Rex E. Beach is a young man who got the 
Alaska fever when hardly more than a boy, spent 
several years in the mining camps of the northern 
wilderness, and returned to civilization with an 
imperious mandate to expose the wrong-doings of 
which he had been a witness. First in a series of 
magazine articles, and now in his novel of "The 
Spoilers," be has told such a tale of corruption and 
the perversion of justice as fairly to startle the 
most apathetic of listeners. That he has used the 
muck-rake to some purpose is clear ; for he substan- 
tiates his essential charges with solid testimony of 
a sort that cannot be dismissed with a sneer as the 
invention of a sensationalist. Briefly, the story he 
tells is that a combination of Eastern politicians 
high in office, having for their tools a masterful 
adventurer and a pliant federal judge, conspired to 
get fraudulent possession of the richest claims in 
the camp at Nome, ousting their legitimate owners 
by chicane and corrupt legal process. How the 
conspiracy triumphed, how the wrong was done, 
and how, in the end, very tardily, such justice pre- 
vailed as was still possible after so much irreparable 
mischief, is set forth in this virile novel, which 
grips us by sheer brute strength, and almost makes 
us forget how devoid it is of anything like grace or 
delicacy of workmanship. 

It is interesting to compare with Mr. Beach's 
novel the somewhat similar "Alton of Somasco," 
by Mr. Harold Bindloss. Here the scene is British 
Columbia instead of Alaska, and there is no political 
deviltry to impel the action, but otherwise the situa- 
tion is the same, being evolved out of the conflict 
between legitimate settlers and unscrupulous schem- 
ers for the possession of valuable ranching and 
mining properties. Mr. Bindloss is a more urbane 
novelist than Mr. Beac'h, and in his hands the blud- 
geon gives place to more civilized weapons. He 
has, moreover, powers of description and character- 
ization far beyond those as yet developed by the 
author of " The Spoilers." An admirable novel is 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



365 



the result, and one which introduces us to a territory 
hitherto almost unexploited in fiction. 

" The Kentuckian " is one of those books which, 
like " Eben Holden " and " David Harum," seem 
to exist chiefly for the purpose of exploiting the 
fond of humorous anecdote at the command of some 
shrewd and garrulous yokel. Were the book no 
more than this, it would hardly call for mention, 
but we find that by carefully skipping all of Bill 
Kirk's contributions to the dialogue, we may dis- 
cover a connected narrative of some degree of in- 
terest. It is a narrative of Ohio in the sixties, and 
is concerned with the operations of the Underground 
Railroad and the exploits of a gang of horse thieves. 
The hero is a young man from the other side of the 
river, who becomes the district school teacher, and 
falls in love with the prettiest of his pupils. This 
is not exactly an original invention, but it may be 
allowed to serve once more. 

" Lady Baltimore," like Mr. Owen Wister's other 
fiction, is defective on the side of construction, but 
the defect is atoned for by the author's powers M 
characterization and his narrative charm. In the 
present novel he bids us sojourn for a while in the 
sleepy old town of King's Port, which is with small 
difficulty identifiable as Charleston, and brings us 
into intimate relations with its denizens. The point 
of riew is that of a Northerner, but of one imbued 
with the fullest sympathy for the gracious aspects 
of a civilization that lingers yet in the Old South, 
although not likely to preserve its fragrance for 
many more years. We must make a somewhat 
lengthy quotation for the purpose of illustrating both 
the attitude of the writer and the manner of his 
expression. " This King's Port, this little city of 
oblivion, held, shut in with its lavender and pressed- 
rose memories, a handful of people who were like 
that great society of the world, the high society of 
distinguished men and women who exist no more, 
but who touched historj' with a light hand, and left 
their mark upon it in a host of memoirs and letters 
that we read to-day with a starved and homesick 
longing in the midst of our sxiEen welter of demo- 
cracy. With its silent houses and gardens, its silent 
streets, its silent vistas of the blue water in the sun- 
shine, this beautiful, sad place was winning my heart 
and making it ache. Nowhere else in America 
such charm, such character, such true elegance as 
here — and nowhere else such an overwhelming sense 
of finality I — the doom of a civilization founded upon 
a crime. And yet, how much has the ballot done 
for that race ? Or, at least, how much has the 
ballot done for the majority of that race ? And 
what way was it to meet this problem with the 
sudden sweeping folly of the Fifteenth Amendment ? 
To fling the • door of hope ' wide open before those 
within had learned the first steps of how to walk 
safely through it I Ah, if it comes to blame, who 
goes scatheless in this heritage of error ? " But we 
must not give the impression that Mr. Wister has 
been writing a sociological tract ; he has, on the 
contrary, given us a very pretty story of the ram- 



bling sort, and rarely bears too heavily upon the 
problems that lie in the background. 

" The Private War," by Mr. Louis Joseph Vance, 
is one of those novels that just escape the category 
of " shockers " by virtue of a certain neatness of 
plot and a bare touch of stylistic virtue. More than 
this cannot in conscience be said of the book from 
a literary point of view, but the readers to whom it 
is addressed will probably think even that sli^t 
element of art superfluous. For it is a book that 
has its being in the interest of excitement and 
nothing else. We begin with a collection of news- 
paper clippings called "The Documents in the 
Case," and as the story is gradually unfolded, these 
incoherent fragments are seen to slip into their 
proper relations to the ingenious plot. The story 
has to do with the fortunes of a young American 
woman in London, the widow of an English noble- 
man, caught in the toils of private villainy and di- 
plomatic intrigue. Her old-time lover, the hero, 
hastens from New York in the true spirit of knight- 
errantry to rescue her, and straightway becomes 
entangled in an amazing coil of plots and counter- 
plots. The interest grows more and more breath- 
less, finally culminating in a triangular naval battle 
between Russian, German, and British warships. 
We do not quite understand how it is all brought 
about, but the narrative is tremendously thrilling, 
which is probably all that its author aimed at. 

A young college professor, at first described as 
" verging upon the sixth lustrum of his age " (a vile 
phrase), and afterwards said to be about thirty 
years old, leaves his position in the University of 
California, and obtains a temporary appointment in 
an Eastern college. The new scene of his labors is 
Warwick, which is easily identifiable as Hartford, 
Connecticut. There he becomes acquainted with " a, 
swell official of the church," otherwise the bishop 
(who is the real power behind the collegiate throne), 
and, what is more important, with the bishop's 
daughter. He also becomes acquainted with a poli- 
tician of the demagogic type, who was formerly an 
employe of the local traction company, and is now 
a candidate for the mayoralty of the city. HenCe 
the book in which Mr. Herbert M. Hopkins has 
told of these matters is entitled "The Mayor of 
Warwick." After the pace of the narrative is fairly 
set, it transpires that the bishop's daughter has been 
secretly married to the demagogue for two years. 
But before this fact comes to the professor's knowl- 
edge he has fallen in love with the yoxmg woman, 
and she has become somewhat interested in him, 
having long since repented of her rash marriage. 
Here is a pretty complication, which is supposed to 
be finally disentangled by the cheap and convenient 
expedient of an action for divorce. The author, 
we understand, is charged with having made " copy" 
out of persons and incidents well-known in Hart- 
ford, which may readily be believed by anyone who 
recalls the unblushing fashion in which, in a pre- 
vious novel, he used (and perverted) the materials 
of his observation of university life in California. 



366 



THE DIAL 



[June 1. 



Mr. Frederick Palmer combines in admirable 
balance the functions of war-correspondent and 
novelist. When the piping times of peace are at 
hand, he will sit down to his desk and write you as 
pretty a story as you could wish to read in an idle 
hour, and when the war-trumpet sounds, he will 
sally forth until he is in the thick of the scrimmage 
collecting observations for a graphic portrayal of 
the scene of carnage. It is this dual activity that 
now gives us " Lucy of the Stars " as a successor to 
*'With Kuroki in Manchuria." We like Mr. 
Palmer's poi'trait of the imaginary Lucy, as we liked 
his portrait of the real Kuroki, but we object most 
strenuously to the fate that he has bestowed upon 
her. It is true that Carniston is a weak creature, 
undeserving of her love, since he rejects it to become 
a mere fortune-hunter, but the story is nevertheless 
progressing toward a chastened romantic reconcili- 
ation between the two, when he abruptly abandons 
her for the second time, and elects to marry the 
American heiress. We also object to the wanton 
killing, in a railway accident, of the American poli- 
tician who loves the aforesaid heiress, both because 
his is the most sympathetic masculine figure in the 
novel, and because the heiress does not deserve so 
cruel a blow. Since the story itself is so unsatis- 
factorily managed, about all that is left for our 
enjoyment is Lucy herself, but she has our unquali- 
fied allegiance from first to last. The story is more 
than worth reading for her sake, even if its outcome 
does rudely shock our romantic sensibilities. 

What will the novelist do when Southwestern 
Europe becomes frank and obvious, like unto the 
rest of the tourist-ridden Continent, and it is no 
longer possible to carve out a mysterious Zenda or 
Graustark from its recesses ? We have had much 
joy in these imaginary principalities since the 
fashion of exploiting them began with Mr. Hope's 
" Prisoner," and Crevonia, the latest of them to 
appear as a candidate for our favor, is quite as inter- 
esting as the others. Mr. Ervin Wardman is the 
inventor, or discoverer, or patentee, of this latest 
addition to romantic geography, and " The Princess 
Olga " is the name given to his chronicle. The hero 
is an American, a mining engineer, and a very 
Napoleon of his profession. He proves equally 
adept in executive ability, strategy and "bluff," and 
we are serenely confident from the start that he will 
succeed in whatever he sets out to accomplish. 
Since one of these objects is to win the Princess 
Olga, we care little for the trifling fact that she is 
the avowed opponent of his plans, even going so far 
AS to shoot him at a certain critical juncture. Of 
course she succumbs in the end, resigns her kingdom 
to the bankers, and prepares to share the hero's life 
in the new world. The story is compact of in- 
trigue, adventure, and general nervous excitement ; 
it is a capital production of its sort, and the most 
jaded novel- reader will not fall asleep while read- 
ing it. 

"The Genius," a novel which portrays the life 
and death of a great musician, opens unhappily with 



a mistaken comparison of the Russian calendar with 
that used elsewhere in the civilized world. A 
trivial error, no doubt, but it compels a moment's 
attention. We are with the hero from the hour of 
his birth, and we toil through lengthy chapters, 
discursive in substance and heavy in manner of 
presentation, before he is brought to the verge of 
manhood. Then, by slow degrees, he becomes more 
and more interesting, until we approach the tragic 
climax, when interest gives place to absorption, and 
we realize that the difiiculties which beset the open- 
ing of the narrative were perhaps necessary to the 
scheme of portrayal. As a study of the artistic 
temperament, bas^ to a certain extent upon the life 
of Tschaikowsky — although more upon his works 
than upon the facts of his external history — the 
book offers us a delineation of remarkable subtlety 
and sympathetic insight. The story is a sad one — 
a story must necessarily be sad which aims to depict 
the character that finds expression in the Pathetic 
Symphony, and ends with the self-destruction of 
the protagonist. Being concerned with the life 
musical, the writer has much to say about music, 
and her opinions range all the way from those which 
reveal a genuine appreciation of musical beauty to 
those which show nothing but blindness of vision. 
The latter part of this statement must be justified 
by a quotation, and here it is. The subject of the 
comment is Mozart, and we are told of " the simple, 
wearisome, weakly-flowing syrup of obviousness, 
which constitutes the secret of that master's popu- 
larity." With these amazing words are we directed 
to the very Holy of Holies of the musician's place 
of worship ! Arnold's description of Shelley as an 
" ineffectual angel " becomes by comparison a pro- 
found critical pronouncement. 

The legendary settlement of Norumbega is the 
scene of " Randvar the Songsmith," the latest of the 
Norse romances of Miss Liljencrantz. The time is 
that of the Norman Conquest, and the scene is pre- 
sumably the present Rhode Island, for the old En- 
glish mill at Newport is reinvested with its legendary 
attribution of Norse origin, and made to serve as a 
home for the hero. This minstrel-hero is a King's 
son who lives a sort of hermit existence until he is 
drawn into the train of the chieftain of Norumbega. 
In his subsequent relation to Jarl Helvin, his part 
is that of a David to his master's Said, for the Jarl 
has accessions of madness, and only the minstrel's 
songs can soothe him. Randvar is like David in 
another respect also, for he has a keen eye for the 
beauty of woman, and it is for the sake of the fair 
but haughty Brynhild, Helvin's sister, that he de- 
serts solitude for the life of the court. It is needless 
to say that his passion is finally rewarded, and that 
Brynhild's pride dissolves in tenderness. It is a 
pretty story that Miss Liljencrantz has told, and has 
many elements of popularity. It exemplifies, of 
coui'se, the artificial romantic convention, but only 
a pedant would find fault with it on that score. , 
"A Motor Car Divorce," by Miss Louise Closser 
Hale, tells the story of a tour in Italy, undertaken 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



367 



by a married pair of ten years' conjugal experience, 
who make an amicable agreement to separate, and 
plan the journey as a probable means of supplying 
a colorable showing of grievances. The idea of the 
divorce is the wife's alone, but the husband gives his 
acquiescence with suspicious cheerfulness. Of course 
we know that nothing of the sort will ever happen, 
but the situation lends itself to enough effective light 
comedy to make an entertaining story. The chief 
ingredients thereof are modem slang, trivial humor, 
frothy sentiment, and pickings of guide-book infor- 
mation. 

From the romance of sixteenth-century France to 
the realism of modern New York is a long step, 
but Miss Runkle has taken it in giving us '• The 
Truth about Tolna," as a successor to " The Helmet 
of Navarre." At first, it seems that she has at least 
provided us with a romantic hero, for Tolna is an 
operatic singer with long hair and a soulful voice, 
whose tenor notes touch to rapture many calloused 
(feminine) souls in the metropolitan purgator}-. He 
is presented to us, moreover, as a patriotic Hungarian, 
burning with love for his oppressed country, and 
standing proudly aloof from the pettj- preoccupations 
of everj'day humanity. But alas for our delusions I 
He is not a Hungarian at all, but a native of New 
York, and the patriotic-poetic business is merely a 
scheme of his unscrupulous manager. He has a 
marvellous voice but a commonplace individuality, 
and his natural speech is the debased dialect of 
modern society and the modern newspaper. His 
New York engagement results in a renewal of 
relations with a sweetheart of his childhood, and a 
love-match is the natural consequence. Another 
love-match is arranged between the unscrupulous 
manager already mentioned and a capricious heiress, 
and the two affairs are delayed in their consumma- 
tion until the narrative has been spun out to the 
requisite length. This frothy story is moderately 
entertaining, but is not to be taken seriously from 
any point of view. TV^n,i,LU4 Moktox Patxe. 



XOTES. 



" The Sphinx's Lawyer " is the title of a new novel 
by Frank Danby which the Frederick A. Stokes Co. will 
publish this month. 

Mr. Henry Frowde publishes an edition, with preface, 
notes, and glossary, of " Pierce the Ploughmans Crede," 
edited by the Rev. Walter W. Skeat. 

The publication of Dr. George Brandes's Reminis- 
cences, which were to have been issued this month, has 
been postponed until the early autumn. 

" Dante Gabriel Rossetti," by Mr. H. W. Singer, is 
the latest edition to the " Langham Series of Art Mono- 
graphs," imported by Messrs. Charles Scribner's Sons. 

The Smithsonian Report for 1904 has for its chief 
feature a " History of American Geology," by Mr. 
George P. Merrill, with many portraits and other illus- 
trations, and an appended biographical dictionary of 
American geologists. 



The first five books of Ctesar's " Gallic War," edited 
by Professor H. W. Johnston and Mr. F. W. Sanford, 
form a new volume in the " Students' Series of Latin 
Classics," published by Messrs. B. H. Sanborn & Co. 

The Climes of Herodas, recovered fourteen years ago 
from an Egyptian tomb, have been translated into pleas- 
ingly idiomatic English verse by Mr. Hugo Sharpley, 
and published by Mr. David Nutt under the title, " A 
Realist of the .£gean." 

Messrs. G. P. Putnam's Sons announce that they have 
taken the agency for the United States for the puhlica^ 
tions of the University Press (the Pitt Press) of Cam- 
bridge, England, and from the first of next month will 
be prepared to fill orders fo» these. 

A volume of " Studies in Modem German Litera- 
ture," by Dr. Otto Heller, is published by Messrs. Ginn 
& Co. It is devoted chiefly to a consideration of Messrs. 
Hauptmann and Sudermann, but includes also a chapter 
on the women writers of recent years. 

Mr. Frederick Strange Kolle has made, and the Graf- 
ton Press has published, a blank-verse translation of 
Ochlenschlager's beautiful romantic tragedy of " Axel 
and Valberg," a poem which needs only to be read to be 
loved. Both the Danish and the German forms of the 
work appear to have been used by the translator. 

Messrs. Charles Scribner's Sons have begun the pub- 
lication of a " pocket edition " of Sir George Meredith's 
hooks, to be completed in sixteen volumes. '< Richard 
Feverel," " Diana of the Crossways," " Vittoria," and 
" Sandra Belloni " are the volumes which begin the series. 
They are engaging and companionable little books. 

" Patriotism and the New Internationalism," by Mrs. 
Lucia Ames Mead, is published by Messrs. Ginn & Co. 
for the International Union. It is a stout pamphlet, 
containing four essays devoted to the inculcation of true 
ideals as distinguished from sham ones, and concluding 
with some suggestions for school exercises that will be 
foimd of the highest helpfulness. • 

" The Miracles of Our Lady Saint Mary," tnuislated 
by Miss Evelyn Underbill, is a recent publication of 
Messrs E. P. Dutton & Co. These «« fairy tales of medi- 
seval Catholicism " are translated from various sources, 
and, of course, offer only a selection from the entire 
cycle, which woidd fill many such volumes as this. 
Miss Underbill's translation gives us an exquisite 
piece of Uterary workman-ship, and the publishers have 
put it into a form deUghtful to the sense. 

lu the absence of an autobiography of Henrik Ibsen, 
of which nothing definite appears to be known, the most 
authentic accoimt of his life and work is that of his fel- 
low-countryman Henrik Jieger, for which Ibsen himself 
supplied material. A translation of this work by Mr. 
William Morton Payne was published in this country 
some years ago by Messrs. A. C. McClurg & Co.; and 
this work now appears with additional matter by the 
translator bringing the biographical and critical account 
practically down to date. 

Some acceptable additions to the "Caxton Thin 
Paper Classics," imported by the Messrs. Scribner, have 
recently been made. Most acceptable of all, perhaps, 
is the three-volume edition of BjTon, classified under the 
heads of " Longer Poems," " Shorter Poems," and 
" Satires and Dramas." Other new volumes in this 
series give us Addison's " Essays " and Lamb's " Let- 
ters"; while in the "Pocket Classics," of nearly the 
same form, we have "The Sacred Poems of Henry 
Vaughan," and Keble's " Lyra Innoeentium." 



368 



THE DIAL 



[June 1, 



One Hijndred IfovELS for Summer 
Reading. 

a descriptive guide to the season's 
best fiction. 



Alexander, Eleanor. The Lady of the Well. Longmans, 
Green, & Co. $1.50. 

A tale of love and adventure in Sonthem Europe during 
the Middle Ages. 
Andrews, Mary Raymond Shipman. Bob and the Guides. 
Illustrated. Charles Scribner's Sons. $1.50. 

The various entertaining adventures of a lively and orig- 
inal small boy, and, incidentally, of many grown-up people, 
on a camping tour in the woods. 
Bacheller, Irving. Silas Strong: Emperor of the Woods. 
With frontispiece. Harper & Brothers. $1.50. 

Silas Strong, a humorous philosopher of the Adirondacks. 
the patient woman he has silently wooed for many years, and 
the two motherless children to whom he is guardian, are the 
principal characters. 
Bailliej-Saunders, Margaret. Saints in Society. G. P. Put- 
nam's Sons. $1.50. 

A story of the effect upon a young printer and his wife of 
sudden accession to wealth, title, and social success. In their 
changed circumstances each meets a " kindred soul," and the 
perilous relations of the four characters result in an entangle- 
ment of plot. 
Barbour, A. Maynabd. ^Breakers Ahead. J. B. Lippincott 
Co. $1.50. 

An American story of to-day. the central figure of which is 
a man of force and cleverness but selfish and strong-willed 
Barnes-Grundy, Mabel. Hazel of Heatherland. Baker & 
Taylor Co. $1.50. 

A simple romantic story of a girl who grows up in the 
narrow but charming environment of English rural life 
among people of striking individuality. 
Beach, Rex E. The Spoilers. Illustrated. Harper & Brothers. 
$1.50. 

The plot turns on a gigantic conspiracy to dispossess the 
original claimants of the Northern gold-fields of their rich 
mining properties. 
Bell, Lilian. Carolina Lee. Illustrated in color. L. C. Page 
& Co. $1.50. 

Carolina is a fascinating American girl, riding on the top 
wave of success in New York society. A financial catastrophe 
leaves her without money, and her only material asset an old, 
run-down plantation In Virginia. Undaunted she goes South 
to rebuild her fortune, and succeeds. 
Bindloss, Harold. Alton of Somasco. IQustrated. Frederick 
A. Stokes Co. $1.50. 

A story of the pioneers of the great Northwest, telling how 
the aristocratic standards of a young girl were put to shame 
by the code of a rancher. 
Boggs, Sara E. Sandpeep : A Story of the Maine Coast. Illus- 
trated. Little, Brown, & Co. $1.50. 

The scene is the northeastern coast of Maine, and the 
character around which the tale centres is a fisher-girl. 
Boyce, Neith. The Eternal Spring. Illustrated. Fox, Duffleld 
&Co. $1.50. 

This new story by the author of "The Forerunner" is a 
tale of love against an Italian background, with Americans 
as the leading characters. Most of the action takes place 
in a villa just outside of Florence, owned by a young American 
widow. 
Boyd, Mary Stuart. The Misses Make-Believe. Henry Holt 
& Co. $1.50. 

A tale of two Devonshire gentlewomen, who attempted the 
conquest of London on slim means. Its unobtrusive moral 
is that more may be gained by sincere living than by strug- 
gling for the meretricious. 
Brady, Cyrus Townsend. The Patriots. Illustrated in color. 
Dodd, Mead & Co. $1.50. 

A story of the American Civil War. General Lee is a lead- 
ing character, and the battles of Gettysburg and Spottsyl- 
vania are given full description. 
Brooks, Mansfield. The Newell Fortune. John Lane Co. $1.50. 
A story dealing with the wealth accumulated by a New 
England family and the effect upon the heir wrought by the 
discovery of what the source of his wealth had been. 

Brown, Alice. The Court of Love. Houghton, Mifflin & Co. 
$1.25. 

The heroine of this little comedy is a lovely girl, and it is 
her peculiar whims and fancies that lead to the curious entan- 
glements which concern all the characters. 



Brown, Kenneth. Sirocco. Mitchell Kennerley. $1.50. 

Describes the adventures of a young American trader while 
engaged in rescuing an English girl from the harem of the 
Sultan of Sirocco. 
Brown, Vincent. The Sacred Cup. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $1.50. 
The story of a mature woman, refined, strong, and good, 
confronted with the fact that the man whom she is engaged 
to marry has been guilty of a shameful sin. 
Burgess, Gelett. A Little Sister of Destiny. Houghton, 
Mifflin & Co. $1.50. 

A young American heiress, finding herself quite alone in 
the world and being possessed with a spirit of adventure, seeks 
out and befriends people in various walks of life which she 
herself enters in disguise. 
Castle, Agnes and Egerton. If Youth But Knew. Illustrated. 
Macmillan Co. $1.50. 

A romantic tale of old days, by the authors of " The Pride of 
Jennico," " Sweet Kitty Bellairs," and other popular books. 
Chambers, Robert W. The Tracer of Lost Persons. Illustrated. 
D. Appleton & Co. $1.50. 

A humorous story of how a clubman got a wife by looking 
for an ideal. 
Chapin, Anna Alice. Hearts and Creeds: A Romance of 
Quebec. Illustrated. Little, Brown. & Co. $1.50. 

The plot deals with the marriage of Arline Lord, a Prot- 
estant girl, and Amedee Lelau, a Catholic. The author is 
thoroughly familiar with Canadian life, and her new story is 
. an intimate study of the social and political life of Quebec. 
CHENfiY, Warren. The Challenge. Illustrated. Bobbs-Merrill 
Co. $1.50. 

A story of Alaska, when it was a Russian possession. The 
scene is laid at one of the trading posts of a great fur com- 
pany, the characters being Russians in the company's employ. 
Cooke, Jane Grosvenor. The Ancient Miracle. Illustrated. 
A. S. Barnes & Co. $1.50. 

A tale of the Northern Wilderness, full of the mystery and 
impressiveness of a great forest. 
Cutting, Mary Stewart. More Stories of Married Life. With 
frontispiece. McClure, Phillips & Co. $1.25. 

A new collection of comedies and tragedies of commuter 
life, by the author of "Little Stories of Courtship" and 
" Little Stories of Married Life." 
Ellis, Elizabeth. Barbara Winslow, Rebel. Illustrated. Dodd, 
Mead & Co. $1.50. 

The heroine is an English girl whose brother has joined 

the rebel army of the Duke of Monmouth. Her adventurous 

love affair with an officer in the King's army supplies the plot. 

Farrer, Reginald J. The House of Shadows. Longmans, 

Green, & Co. $1.50. 

A story of modern English life with a background of social 
and clerical life. 
Frothingham, Eugenia Brooks. The Evasion. Houghton, 
Mifflin & Co. $1.50. 

The life of the rich and idle social set of Boston is here 
depicted. The chief character is a wealthy young man whose 
reputation is ruined by an accusation of cheating at cards. 
Grant, Robert. The Law Breakers. Charles Scribner's Sons. 
$1.25. 

A collection of seven short stories, including besides the 
title story the following: " St. George and the Dragon," " An 
Exchange of Courtesies." " The Romance of a Soul," "Against 
his Judgment," " A Surrender," and " Across the Way." 
Green, Anna Katharine. The Woman in the Alcove. Illus- 
trated. Bobbs-Merrill Co. $1.50. 

A new detective story by the author of " The Millionaire 
Baby " and other novels. It has to do with the efforts of a 
young girl to prove the innocence of her lover, accused of an 
atrocious murder. 
Hains, T. Jenkins. The Voyage of the Arrow. Illustrated. 
L. C.Page & Co. $1.50. 

An account of the voyage of the ship "Arrow" to the 
China seas, its adventures and perils, including its capture by 
pirates, as set down by its chief mate. 
Harraden, Beatrice. The Scholar's Daughter. With frontis- 
piece. Dodd, Mead & Co. $1.50. 

Life in a quiet English town is depicted in this new novel 
by the author of " Ships that Pass in the Night." The prin- 
cipal characters are an antiquated scholar and his gay and 
irrepressible daughter. 
Harry, Myriam. The Conquest of Jerusalem: A Novel of To- 
day. Herbert B. Turner & Co. $1.50. 

A story having for its main theme the social life in the 
European colony at Jerusalem, with its religious bickerings 
and persecutions of an eminent archaeologist who is working 
to unearth the past. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL. 



369 



Hkjtby, O. The Four Million. McClare, Phillips & Co. H. 

The "four million" are the inhabitants of Manhattan 
Island, whom Mr. Henry depicts with his usual keen humor 
and eye for character. 
HoLLAXD. RuFEBT Sabgext. The Coont at Harvard. L. C. 
Page & Co. $1.50. 

An account of the adventures of a young gentleman of 
fashion at Harvard University. " The Count " is not a for- 
eigner, but is the nickname of one of the principal characters 
in the book. 
Hopkins, Hebbebt M. The Mayor of Warwick. With frontis- 
piece in color. Houghton. Mifflin & Co. $1.50. 

A story of present-day political and college life in an up- 
to-date New England college town — said to be Hartford. 
HoPKixs, William J. The Clammer. Houghton, Mifflin & Co. 
$1.25. 

A simple little love story, told with much distinction of 
style, of a witty recluse who loves to dig his own clams. 
HrTTKjr, Bettixa von. Pam Decides. Illnstrated. Dodd, Mead 
& Co. $1.50. 

A sequel to the same author's " Pam," tracing this fosci- 
nating heroine through her absorption in the artistic and 
bohemian set of London and her life in Ireland. 
Lancaster. G. B. The Spur ; or, The Bondage of Kin Seveme. 
Doubleday. Page & Co. $1.50. 

The story of Kin Seveme. Xew Zealand sheep shearer and 
man of genius, who sold his fatore to another man to get a 
chance to prove himself. 
Lane. Elinor Macartney. All for the Love of a Lady. Illus- 
trated. D. Appleton & Co. $1.25. 

The story of a lady who lived in Scotland in the days when 
Charles was King of England. The lady has three worthy 
lovers — one a man and the others two little boys. 
Lee, Jennette. Uncle WiUiam. the Man that Was Shif less. 
With frontispiece. Century Co. $1. 

Uncle WiUiam is an old Nova Scotia fisherman into whose 
retired life comes a New York artist. The scene shifts from 
Uncle William's lonely home on a rocky coast to New York, 
whither Uncle WUliam goes on learning of the Ulness of his 
artist friend. 
Lewis, Alfred Henby. The Throwback. Illustrated. Outing 
Publishing Co. $1.50. 

A romantic story of the Southwest in the days when the 
buffalo roamed the plains, when the Indian council fires still 
smoked, and the cowboy's life was one of continuous hazard. 
LnjENCRANTz, Ottilie A. Randvar the Songsmith : A Romance 
of Norumbega. With frontispiece in color. Harper & Bro- 
thers. $1.50. 

A romance of the time of the Norsemen in America, based 
on the legends clustering around the old tower at Newport. 
The hero of the tale is a " songsmith " by nature, with the 
soul of a poet and the courage of a true and stalwart man. 
Lincoln, Joseph C. Mr. Pratt. A. S. Barnes &, Co. $1.50. 

The hero is a modest clam digger who endeavors to ini- 
tiate two Wall Street brokers and their valet into the myster- 
ies of the " natural life." 
XiLOYD, Nelson. Six Stars. Illastrated. Charles Scribner's 
Sons. $1.50. 

Six Stars is a little village in a Pennsylvania valley. The 
quaint and amusingly shrewd characters, their lives, their 
jokes, and their romances make up the story. 
Long. John Luther. The Way of the Giods. MacmiUanCo. $1.50. 
A new story of Japanese life, by the author of " Madame 
Butterfly." etc. 
LoBiMER. George Horace. The False Gods. Illustrated. D. 
Appleton & Co. $1.25. 

" A tale of old Egypt and Little old New York," describing 
the adventures of an energetic newspaper reporter in the 
halls of a Society of Egyptologists. 
Lubbock, Basil. Jack Derringer : A Tale of Deep Water. E. P. 
Dutton & Co. $1.50. 

A sea tale describing the adventures of a "shanghaied" 
cowpuncher on a deep water cruise. The story deals with a 
trip around the Cape and later with the South Seas. 
Lynde, Francis. The Quickening. Illustrated. Bobbs-Merrill 
Co. $1J0. 

The title refers to the spiritual awakening of a young 
Southerner. The scene is laid in the mountains of Tennessee. 
McCabthy, JrsTiN Huntly. Thie Flower td France. Harper & 
Brothers. $1.50. 

This is the story of Joan of Arc, charmingly retold. The 
Maid of France is represented not as the mailed warrior or 
half-mad fanatic, but as a simple peasant-girl, fresh and 
strong and sweet. 



McCirrcHEON. Geobge Barb. Cowardice Court, niastrated in 
color. Dodd. Mead & Co. $1.25. 

A tale of love and adventure ia the Adirondack Mountains, 
by the author of " Graustark," " Nedra," etc. 

Macdonald, Ronald. The Sea Maid. Henry Holt & Co. $1.50. 
After the opening chapter in rural England, the story 
shifts to a treasure ship, and later to an island in the Pacific. 
An English lord and the half-wild but adorable daughter of a 
castaway English bishop and his prim wife are the leading 
characters. 

McIvoR. Allan. The Mechanic: A Romance of Steel and Oil. 
New York: William Ritchie. $1.50. 

The story of how John Worth, the mechania acquires an 
education ; how he battles with the magnates of Oil ; how he 
marries Lurgan's daughter, Catherine, a famous heiress ; how 
he triumphs over all obstacles, and of right becomes a great 
captain of industry. 

Macphail. Andrew. TheVineof Sibmah. MacmiUanCo. $1.50. 
The adventures of a valiant soldier who, after the Restora- 
tion, went seeking a certain winsome woman, Puritan di- 
vines and pirates, Jesuits and Quakers, soldiers and savages 
make up the characters. 

Mabchmont, Arthur W. By Wit of Woman. Illnstrated in 
color, etc. Frederick A. Stokes Co. $1.50. 

The heroine, who has spent her grirlhood in America, re- 
turns to Buda-Pesth to vindicate the name of her dead father, 
onj ustly accused of murder in connection with a plot to restore 
the ancient Hungarian monarchy ; and there she meets with 
many adventures. 

MxLLS, Weymer Jay. The Ghosts of their Ancestors. lUos- 
trated in color, etc. Fox, Duffield & Co. $1.25. 

A satire on the prevalent ancestor worship in America, by 
the author of " Caroline of Courtland Street." 

Mitchell, Db. 8. Weib. A Diplomatic Adventure. With fron- 
tispiece. Century Co. $1. 

The scene is laid in Paris at the time of the Civil War in 
America. The characters include a pretty woman who seeks 
the protection of a strange gentleman's cab, three Frenchmen, 
and a couple of clever young Americans in their country's 
service. 

Morse, Mabgabet. The Spirit <rf the Pines. Houghton, MifOin 
ACo. $1. 

A little tragedy enacted amid the fragrance of piney woods 
and hiUtops in New Hampshire is here told. It is a love story, 
a story of nature and of two nature lovers ; of a man and a 
woman of unusual temperaments, ideals, and affinity. 

MiTNN, Chables Clark. The Girl from Tim's Place. Illas- 
trated. Lothrop, Lee & Shepard Co. $1.50. 

The transformation of " Chip " McGuire from a young girl 
found at a New England wilderness half-way house, known 
as " Tim's place." into a beautiful and cultivated young 
woman is the central theme of the book. 

OuiSTEAD, Stanley. The Nonchalante. Henry Holt & Co. $1.25. 

A humorous tale of Americans in " PUssestadt." a town 

the original of which is probably Liepzig. The author is a 

talented pianist, and draws much of his material from his 

own experiences while a student in Germany. 

Oppenheim, E. Phtlltps. a Maker of History. Illustrated. 
Little, Brown, &. Co. $1.50. 

Important personages in the diplomatic and official life of 
England, France, Germany, and Russia have a place in the 
story ; and the ingenuity of the secret police of three countries 
is involved in the maze of incident, plot, and counter-plot 
throiigh which the reader is carried. 

Paine. Albert Bigelow. The Lucky Piece. With frontispiece 
in color. Outing Publishing Co. $1.50. 

The scene is laid mostly among the Adirondacks. The 
Lucky Piece is an old Spanish coin, and it plays an impor- 
tant part in the story of how the somewhat idle and blase 
young townsman found himself, through the influence of the 
forest and mountain. 

Palmer, Frederick. Lucy of the Stars. Charles Scribner's 
Sons. $1.50. 

A story wherein politics and love, tragedy and comedy, 
with men and women of varied charm and character, make 
up a picture of to-day. 

Patebnosteb, Q. Sidney. The Cruise of the Conqueror. With 
frontispiece in color. L. G. Page & Co. $1.50. 

A story continuing the adventures of the principal charac- 
ters in Mr. Paternoster's " Adventures of the Motor Pirate." 
In this volume the motor boat is the means by which the 
daring '" highwayman " pursues his victims. 

Pemberton, Max. My Sword for Lafayette. Illustrated. Dodd. 
Mead & Co. $1.50. 

An account of the adventures in war and love of Zaida 
Kay, a young Frenchman in the service of Lafayette on his 
American campaign. 



370 



THE DIAL 



[June 1, 



Phiixips, Henby Wallace. Red Saunders' Pets, and Other 
Critters. Illustrated. McClure. Phillips & Co. $1.26. 

A new set of humorous tales of the pets and other critters 
whom Red Saunders and his crowd were wont to adopt from 
time to time. 
Phillips, Henry Wallace. Mr. Scraggs. Illustrated. Grafton 
Press. 11.25. 

A new story of Western life by the author of " Red Saun- 
ders." Mr. Scraggs is an adventurous individual, whose 
mournful appearance belies his jovial disposition. 
Pollock, Frank L. The Treasure Trail. With frontispiece. 
L. C.Page & Co. $1.25. 

The story deals with the search for gold bullion, originally 
stolen from the Boer government in Pretoria, and stored in a 
steamer sunk somewhere in the Mozambique Channel. Two 
different search parties are endeavoring to secure the treasure. 
PooLE, Ernest. The Voice of the Street. Illustrated. A. S. 
Barnes & Co. $1.50. 

The scene is New York, and the principal character is a 
young man of obscure birth and wayward tendencies who 
comes into prominence through his wonderful voice. 
Powell, Frances. The Prisoner of Omith Farm. Charles 
Scribner's Sons. $1.50. 

Rescued from an open boat in which she has drifted to sea 
off the New England coast, the young heroine has a remark- 
able series of adventures at Omith Farm, whither she is taken 
by her abductor. 
Preston, Sidney. Common Ground. Henry Holt & Co. $1.50. 

The journal of a gentle bachelor who, in pursuit of happi- 
ness, retires to a small farm and to the cares of agriculture 
and of raising chickens. The chickens wander into the prem- 
ises of a neighbor, also from the city, and the idyll begins. 
Rhodes, Harrison Garfield. The Lady and the Ladder* 
Illustrated. Doubleday, Page and Co. $1.50. 

The ladder up which this delightful American widow clam- 
bers is of course the social one, and her experiences in 
trying to climb it make interesting reading. 
Rickert, Edith. Folly. With frontispiece in color. Baker & 
Taylor Co. $1.50. 

The heroine is a charming, high-spirited woman of the 
artistic temperament, who marries a man more because he 
loves her than that she loves him, and so leaves the door 
open for temptation in the form of "the other man." 
Robertson, Harrison. The Pink Typhoon. With frontispiece. 
Charles Scribner's Sons. $1. 

The scene is a city in the Southwest, and the various ex- 
cursions made about the neighborhood by a bachelor judge in 
his automobile, " The Pink Typhoon," form the basis for the 
story. 
Root, Edward Clary. Huntington, Jr. Illustrated in color. 
Frederick A. Stokes Co. $1.50. 

The hero of this " romance of to-day " is a young man 
who throws himself into the independent reform movement 
in politics. 
Ryan, Marah Ellis. For the Soul of Rafael. Illustrated. 
A. C. McClurg & Co. $1.50. 

A picturesque romance of Old California. The characters 
are all of the fine aristocratic Spanish type, at a period when 
Americans were regarded as godless invaders. 
Sage, William. The District Attorney. Little, Brown, & Co. 
$1.50. 

A story dealing with political and financial life in America 
at the present time. The principal characters are a great 
captain of finance and his son, who play at cross purposes 
throughout. 
Salttjs, Edgar. Vanity Square. J. B. Lippincott Co. $1.25. 

A story of love and mystery, centering about the sudden 
disappearance of the wife and child of a rich young clubman. 
Scott, John Reed. The Colonel of the Red Huzaars. Illus- 
trated. J. B. Lippincott Co. $1.50. 

A romance of the "Zenda" type, having to do with the 
complicated love affairs of the Princess Dehra of Valeria and 
a young American officer. 
Sea WELL, Molly Elliott. The Chateau of Montplaisir. Illus- 
trated. D. Appleton & Co. $1.50, 

A humorous tale of a young French nobleman, a wealthy 
soap-manufacturer who longs for a title, and the daughter of 
the latter. 
Sedgwick, Anns Dottglas. The Shadow of Life. Century Co. 
$1.50. 

A tale of love and spiritual struggle, by the author of " The 
Confounding of Camelia," "Paths of Judgment," and other 
popular novels. 



Selkirk, Emily. The Stigma: A Tale of the South. Herbert 
B. Turner & Co. $1.50. 

A story of life to-day in a small Southern town. The prin- 
cipal characters are white Southerners, but the background 
of the picture is the negro. 
Sinclair, Upton. The Jungle. Doubleday, Page & Co. $1.50. 
A realistic novel of the sordid working and living condi- 
tions in the stock yards district of Chicago. 
Stevenson, Burton. The Girl with the Blue Sailor. Illustrated. 
Dodd, Mead & Co. $1.50. 

The scene opens with the hero's trip to the Catskills for 
rest, and the story has mainly to do with his vacation and 
the love story that grows out of it. Later the scene shifts to 
New York. 
Stringer, Arthur. The Wire- Tappers. Illustrated. Little, 
Brown, & Co. $1.50. 

The hero, an electrical inventor, and the heroine, a beau- 
tiful English girl, become involved with a man who attempts 
by wire-tapping to beat a pool-room in New York City. The 
efforts of the girl to uplift the man she loves and to extricate 
him and herself from evil associations make up the story. 
Sturgis, Howard Overing. All That Was Possible. With 
frontispiece in color. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $1.50. 

A story that fulfills its title by showing the hopeless pathos 
that is inevitable when social conventionality bars the return 
to honorable living. 
Taylor, C. Bryson. Nicanor: Teller of Tales. Illustrated in 
color. A. C. McClurg & Co. $1.50. 

Nicanor, the story-teller, was the son of a wood-cutter who 
lived in Britain when the island was ruled by the Romans. 
The charm of his voice wins for him the love of two women, 
one a slave, the other the daughter of a Roman lord. Of 
these two, and of Nicanor's life and deeds, is the story. 
Thurston, Lucy Meacham. Called to the Field. Little, Brown, 
& Co. $1.50. 

The heroine, who tells the story, is a young Virgrinia girl 
just married, dwelling at her country home, rich and happy, 
when the Civil War bursts upon her and changes the current 
of her life. 
Tilton, DwiGHT. The Golden Greyhoimd. Illustrated. Loth- 
rop, Lee & Shepard Co. $1.50. 

An up-to-date story of love and mystery, with wireless 
telegraphy and all the modem improvements. The events 
nearly all take place on a big Atlantic liner. 
Tynan, Katharine. Dick Pentreath. Illustrated. A. C. Mc- 
Clurg & Co. $1.25. 

A quiet, old-fashioned story of country life in Essex, Eng- 
land. The hero is a lovable but ineffectual young fellow, who 
has many trials, but comes through them all bravely. 
Vance, Louis Joseph. The Private War. Illustrated. D. Ap- 
pleton & Co. $1.50. 

Describes the struggle between a rich young American 
and a German attachi in London for the hand of a beautiful 
American woman. The story ends in a terrific battle between 
torpedo boats in the North Sea. 
Van Vorst, Marie. The Sin of George Warrener. MacmUlan 
Co. $1.50. 

A study of life and manners among people in a suburban 
town, by the author of "Amanda of the Mill." 
Ward, A. B. The Sage Brush Parson. Little, Brown, & Co. 
$1.50. 

A western story, depicting the unconventional life in the 
sage brush wastes of Nevada. The hero, Clement Vaughan, is 
an Englishman, filled with a great enthusiasm for saving 
souls, who works zealously among the rough miners of a 
little Nevada town. 
Ward, Mrs. Humphry. Fenwick's Career. Illustrated. Harper 
& Brothers. $1.50. 

The hero is a young English artist who leaves his wife and 
child in Westmoreland, and comes up to London to study. 
Here he falls in love with a young married woman, and the 
resulting complications make up the story. 
Wardman, Ervin. The Princess Olga. Harper & Brothers. 
$1.50. 

A tale of adventure, describing the experiences of a young 
American engineer amid the political plots and complications 
of a little independent kingdom of Europe. 
White, William Allen. In Our Town. Illustrated. McClure, 
Phillips* Co. $1.50. 

" Our Town " is an amusing and individual little village in 
Kansas, as you will see it in your tour personally conducted by 
the editor of a local paper, who introduces you to the show 
characters and whispers in your ear their humorous or 
pathetic life stories. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



371 



WnxiAMSON, C. N. and A. M. Lady Betty across the Water. 

Illustrated in color. McClure, Phillips & Co. $1.50. 

An Anelo-American romance in the form of a diary of a 

bright, vivacioos English girl who comes to America under 

tile chaperonage of a leader of the " 400 " in New York and 

Newport. 
WiKTLE. Habold. The Cleansing of the Lords. John Lane Co. 

tl.dO. 

A story of English iwlitics, and Kngli.sh men and women 

who move in the inner circles of public affairs. The Prime 

Minister is a leading character. 
WisTKB. Owes. Lady Baltimore. Illustrated. Muraniliftn Co. 

$1.50. 

From the plains and cowboys of "The Virginian" Mr. 

Wister has turned in this new book to a historic city, with 

present-day youths and maidens of a highly civilized sort as 

the characters. 
Weight, Mabel Osgood. The Garden. You and I. Macmillan 

Oo. $1.50. 

" The Garden of a Conunnter's Wife," published anony- 
mously a few years ago, has been acknowledged by Mrs. 

Wright, and in this new story she returns to the scence of 

the previous book. 
Wbight, Maby Tappax. The Tower. Charles Scribner's Sons. 

$1.50. 

A love story, and a picture of life in a college community 

taken from the faculty instead of the student side. 



liisT OF Xew Books. 



[2^ folloicing list, containing 150 titles, indude* books 
received btf The Dial since its last issue.] 

BIOGRAPHY AND REMINISCENCES. 
Secollections of Thirteen Presidents. By John S. Wise. 

With portraits, large 8vo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 2&1. Doubleday, 

Page & Co. $2.50 net. 
The liife of a Star. By Oara Morris. 12mo. pp.363. McCIoie. 

PhiUips & Co. $1.50 net. 
A Friend of Marie Antoinette (Lady Atkynsl. Trans, from 

the French of Frederic Barbey ; with a Preface by Victorien 

Sardou. With portraits, large 8vo, uncut, pp. 252. E. P. 

Button & Co. $3. net. 
Herbert Spencer. By J. -Arthur Thomson, M.A. With pho- 
togravure portrait, 12mo. gilt top, pp. 284. " Rngliah Men of 

Science." E. P. Button & Co. $1. net. 
Walter Pater. By A. C. Benson. 12mo. gilt top. pp. 226. 

■■ English Men of Letters." Macmillan Co. 75 cts. net. 
Heroes of Discovery in America. By Charles Morris. 

nius., 12mo. pp. 3U. J. B. Lippincott Co. $1.25 net. 
Pizarro and the Conquest of Peru- By Frederick A. Ober. 

nius., 12mo, pp. 296. " Heroes of American History." Hari>er 

& Brothers. $1. net. 

HISTOBY. 

Joutel's Journal of La Salle's Iiast Voyage. 16&1-7. With 
historical and biographical introduction, annotations, and 
index by Henry Reed StUes, .\.M. To which is added a 
Bibliography of the Discovery of the Mississippi by Appleton 
P. C. Griffin. New limited edition; with frontispiece and 
map, large 8vo, uncut, pp. 258. .Vlbany, N. Y. : Joseph Mc- 
Donough. $5. net. 

The Silver Age of the Greek World- By John Pentland 
Mahaffy, C.V.O. 12mo, pp. 482. University of Chicago Press. 
$3. net. 

Jacksonian Democracy, 1829-1837. By William Mac Donald, 
LL.D. With portrait and maps. 8vo. gilt top, pp. 345. " The 
American Nation." Harper & Brothers. $2. net. 

Alexander Hamilton : An Elssay on American Union. By 
Frederick Scott Oliver. With portraits, 8vo, gilt top, pp. 502. 
G. P. Putnam's Sons. $3.75 net. 

Ancient Becords of Egrypt : Historical Documents from the 
Earliest Times to the Persian Conquest. Collected, edited, 
and translated, with Commentary, by James Henry Breasted, 
Ph.D. Vol. III., The Nineteenth Dynasty. With maps, large 
8vo, uncut, pp. 279. University of Chicago Press. 

The Development of Freedom of the Press in Massa- 
chusetts. By Clyde Augustus Duniway. Large 8vo, pp. 202. 
Longmans. Green, & Co. 

GENERAL LITERATURE. 
From a College Window. By Arthur Christopher Benson. 
12mo, pp.365. G. P. Patnam's Sons. $1.25 net. 



Shell Gatherers. By Katharine Burrill. 12mo, gilt top, 

pp. 218. E. P. Dntton & Co. $1.25 net. 
The Holy Grail : Six Kindred Addresses and Essays. By 

James A. B. Scherer. With frontispiece. 12mo, pp. 210. J. B. 

Lippincott Co. $1.25 net. 
The Primrose Way. Illus.. 8vo, pp. 301. " Mark Twain's 

Library of Humor." Harper & Brothers. $1.50. 
The Secret Life : Being the Book of a Heretic 12mo. pp. 313. 

John Lane Co. $1.50 net. 
Social Eccentricities. By Walter Sonneberg. With portrait. 

12mo, pp. 54. Broadway Publishing Co. 

NEW EDITIONS OF STANDARD LITERATTTRE. 

A Book of Songs and Sonnets. Selected from the Poems 
of Thomas Bailey Aldrich. Limited edition; 16mo. uncut, 
pp. 113. Houghton, Mifllin & Co. fe. net. 
Everyman's Library. Edited by Ernest Rhys. First vols. : 
Boswell's Life of Johnson (2 vols.); Napoleon Buonaparte, 
by John Gibson Lockhart ; Andersen's Fairy Tales ; A Wonder 
Book and Tanglewood Tales, by Nathaniel Hawthorne, Peter 
the Whaler, and The Three Midshipmen, by W. H. G. Kingston 
■ (2 vols.); Lamb's Tales from Shakespeare; Golden Book of 
Marcus Aurelius. trans, by Meric Casaubon ; Bacon's Essays ; 
Biographia Literaria. by Samuel Taylor Coleridge ; Emerson's 
Essays, first and second series; Essays in Literature and 
History, by James Anthony Fronde ; Lamb's Essays of EUa ; 
Harold, and The Last of the Barons, by Sir Edward Bulwer 
Lytton (2 vols.) ; Ivanhoe, by Sir Walter Scott ; Cresay and 
Poictiers. by J. Q. Edgar ; The Household of Sir Thomas More. 
hy Anne Manning, with Roper's Life of More ; Westward Ho ! 
by Charles Kingsley ; The Cloister and the Hearth, by Charles 
Beade ; Sense and Sensibility. Pride and Prejudice. Mansfield 
Park. Northanger .A.bbey and Persuasion, Enxma, by Jane 
Austen ( 5 vols. > ; The Wild Ass's Skin, by Honore de Balzac 
trans, by Ellen Marriage; .\dam Bede. by George Eliot: 
Ravenshoe. by Henry Kingsley; Barchester Towers, by 
Anthony Trollope ; Carlyle's French Revolution (2 vols. ) ; His- 
tory of the Byzantine Empire, by George Finlay ; Macaulay's 
History of England 1 3 vols, i ; Sermons on Religion and Life. 
Sermons on Bible Subjects, Sermons on Christian Doctrine, by 
F. W. Robertson (.3 vols.) ; Sermons by Hugh Latimer ; Poems 
and Plays of Browning, 1833-1864 (2 vols. ) ; Golden Book of 
Coleridge ; Poems of Tennyson, 1830-1863 ; Le Morte d' Arthur, 
by Sir Thomas Malory ^2 vols. ) ; Man's Place in Nature, and 
Other Essays, by Thomas Henry Huxley ; Natural History of 
Selbome, by Gilbert White; Wild Wales, by George Borrow: 
Journal of the IMscovery of the Source of the Nile, by John 
Hanning Speke. Each 16mo. E. P. Dutton & Co. Per vol.. 
50 cts. 
The Works of Flavltis Josephns. Trans, by William 
Whiston ; newly edited by D. S. MargoUouth. D. Litt. Large 
8vo, uncut, pp. 988. E. P. Dutton & Co. $2. net. 
Works of George Meredith. Pocket Edition. First vols. : 
The Ordeal of Richard Feverel. Diana of the Crossways. 
Vittoria, Sandra BeUoni. 16mo, gilt tops. Charles Scribner's 
Sons. Per vol., $1. 
The Letters of Charles Lamb. Edited by Russell Davis 
GUlman. With photogravure frontispiece, 18mo, gilt top, 
pp. 466. " Caxton Thin Paper Classics." Charles Scribner's 
Sons. Leather. $1.25 net. 
The Sacred Poems of Henry 'Vaughan. With photogravure 
frontispiece, ISmo. gilt top. pp. 232. " Newnes' Devotional 
Series." Charles Scribner's Sons. Leather, $1.25 net, 
Lyra Innocentlum. By John Keble. With photogravure 
frontispiece. 18mo, gilt top, pp. 226. "Newnes' Devotional 
Series." Charles Scribner's Sons. Leather, $1.25 net. 
Pierce the Ploughmans Crede (about 1394 A. D.). Edited 
by Rev. Walter W. Skeat, Litt.D. 16mo, pp. 73. Oxford 
University Press. 

BOOKS OF 'V^ERSE. 
The Far Country. By Florence Wilkinson. 12mo. pp. 252. 

McQure, Phillips & Co. $1. net. 
The Dawn in Britain. By Charles M. Doughty. In 2 vols.. 

12mo. gilt tops, uncut. E. P. Dutton * Co. $3. net. 
Modem Love : An Anthology. l6mo, gilt top, pp. 75. New 

York: Mitchell Kennerley. $1. net. 
The Exodus : An Epic on Liberty. By Francis Everard Roche. 

I'Zmo, gilt top. uncut, pp. 299. Gorham Press. $1.50. 
The Junction of Laughter and Tears. By De Keller 

Stamey. 12mo. gilt top. pp. 120. Gorham Press. $1.25. 
The Youth of Messiah. By Edward Farquhar. 12mo, pp. 9. 

Gorham Press. $1. 



372 



THE DIAL 



[June 1, 



FICTION. 
Fenwick's Career. By Mrs. Humphry Ward. lUus., 12mo. 

Harper & Brothers. $1.50. 
Lady Betty across the Water. By C. N. and A. M. William- 
son. Illus. in color, 12mo. McClure, Phillips & Co. $1.50. 
The Flower of France. By Justin Huntly McCarthy. 12mo, 

pp. 331. Harper & Brothers. $1.50. 
The Way of the Gods. By John Luther Long. 12mo, gilt top, 

pp. 314. Macmillan Co. $1.50. 
By Wit of Woman. By Arthur W. Marchmont. Illus. in 

color, etc., 12mo, pp. 362. Frederick A. Stokes Co. $1.50. 
The Wire-Tappers. By Arthur Stringer. Illus., 12mo, pp. 324. 

Little, Brovra, & Co. $1.50. 
The Bottom of the Well. By Frederick Upham Adams. Illus. 

in color, 12mo, pp. 352. G. W. Dillingham Co. $1.50. 
Pam Decides. By Bettina von Hutten. Illus. in color, etc., 

12mo, pp. 340. Dodd, Mead & Co. $1.50. 
On Common Ground. By Sydney H. Preston. 12mo, pp. 316. 

Henry Holt & Co. $1.50. 
Huntingrton, Jr.: A Romance of To-day. By Edward Clary Root. 

Illus. in color, 12mo, pp. 344. Frederick A. Stokes Co. $1.50. 
The Girl with the Blue Sailor. By Burton E. Stevenson. 

Illus., 12mo, pp. 310. Dodd, Mead & Co. $1.50. 
Jack Derring-er : A Tale of Deep Water. By Basil Lubbock. 

12mo, uncut, pp. 328. E. P. Dutton & Co. $1.50. 
The Court of Love. By Alice Brown. 12mo, pp. 211. Houghton, 

Mifflin & Co. $1.26. 
The Misses Make-Believe. By Mary Stuart Boyd. 12mo, 

pp.363. Henry Holt & Co. $1.50. 
The Pink Typhoon. By Harrison Robertson. With frontis- 
piece, ]6mo, pp. 196. Charles Scribner's Sons. $1.50. 
The Newell Fortune. By Mansfield Brooks. 12mo, pp. 304. 

John Lane Co. $1.50. 
The Story of Paul Jones : An Historical Romance. By Alfred 

H. Lewis. Illus., 12mo, pp. 308. G. W. Dillingham Co. $1.50. 
The Praying Skipper, and Other Stories. By Ralph D. Paine. 

Illus. in color, etc., 12mo, pp. 292. Outing Publishing Co. $1.50. 
The Red-Haired Woman : Her Autobiography. By Louise 

Kenny. 12mo, uncut, pp. 406. E. P. Dutton & Co. $1.50. 
Red Saunders' Pets and Other Critters. By Henry Wallace 

Phillips. lUus., 12mo, pp. 231. McClure, Phillips & Co. $1.25. 
Hagric Casements. By Arthur Shearly Crippa. 16mo, gilt top, 

pp.186. E. P. Dutton & Co. $1.25. 
Truth Dexter. By Sidney McCall. New illustrated edition ; 

12mo, gilt top, pp. 362. Little, Brown, & Co. $1.50. 
IXiss New York. By Edmund Blair Pancake. Illus. in color, 

12mo, pp. 305. R. F. Fenno & Co. $1.50. 
Under the Sunset. Edited by William Dean Howells and 

Henry Mills Alden. 16mo, pp. 264. " Harper's Novelettes." 

Harper & Brothers. $1 . 
Ruth. By Edith Elizabeth Fisher. Illus., 12mo, pp. 452. Broad- 
way Publishing Co. 

TRAVEL AND DESCRIPTION. 
Morocco of To-day. By Eugene Aubin. With maps, 8vo, gilt 

top, uncut, pp. 398. E. P. Dutton & Co. $2. net. 
Cornish Saints and Sinners. By J. Henry Harris. Illus., 

12mo, pp. 312. John Lane Co. 

RELIGION. 
In Quest of Lig-ht. By Goldwin Smith. 12mo, gilt top, pp. 177. 
Macmillan Co. $1. net. 

SOCIOLOGY AND ECONOMICS. 
Man, the Social Creator. By Henry Demarest Lloyd. With 

portrait, 8vo, gilt top, pp. 279. Doubleday, Page & Co. $2. net. 
The Struggle for Self-Govemment : Being an Attempt to 

Trace American Political Corruption in Six States ; with a 

Dedication to the Czar. By Lincoln Steffens. 12mo, pp. 294. 

McClure, Phillips & Co. $1.20 net. 
The Battles of Labor : Being the William Levi Bull Lectures 

for 1906. By Carroll D. Wright, Ph.D. 12mo, pp. 220. George 

W. Jacobs & Co. $1. net. 

PHILOSOPHY. 

The Pathway to Reality : Being the Gifford Lectures for 
1902-3. By Richard Burdon Haldane. In 2 vpis., witji photo- 
gravure portraits, large 8vo. E. P. Dutton &■ Co.' ^^'.ISOnet. 

Idola Theatri : A Criticism of Oxford Thought and Thinkers 
from the Standpoint of Personal Idealism. By Henry Sturt. 
Large 8vo, uncut, pp.344. Macmillan Co. $3.25 net. 

The Unity of Will : Studies of an Irrationalist. By George 
A. Hight. Large 8vo, uncut, pp. 244. E. P. Dutton & Co. $3. net. 

Science and Idealism. By Hugo Miinsterberg. t6mo, gilt top, 
pp. 71. Houghton, Mifflin & Co. 85 cts. net. 



ART. 
How to Look at Pictures. By Robert Clermont Witt, M.A. 

Illus., 8vo, gilt top, pp. 193. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $1.40 net. 
Manual of Oriental Antiquities. By Ernest Babelon. New 

edition, with a Chapter on the Recent Discoveries at Susa. 

Illus., 12mo, pp. 352. G. P. Putnam's Sons. 
Etchings of Van Dyck. Introduction by Frank Newbolt. 

Illus. in photogravure, etc., 4to, gilt top. "The Great Etch- 
ers." Charles Scribner's Sons. $2.50 net. 
Dante Gabriel Rossetti. By H. W. Singer. Illus., 16mo, gilt 

top, pp. 73. " Langham Series of Art Monographs." Charles 

Scribner's Sons. Leather, $1. net. 

SCIENCE. 
The Subconscious. By Joseph Jastrow. 8vo, gilt top, pp. 549. 

Houghton, Mifflin & Co. $2.50 net. 
The Analysis of Racial Descent in Animals. By Thomas 

H. Montgomery, Jr., Ph.D. Large 8vo, pp. 311. Henry Holt 

&Co. 

BOOKS OF HUMOR. 
A. Few Neighbors. By Henry A. Shute. With frontispiece, 

' 12mo, pp. 214. Doubleday, Page & Co. $1. net. 
Rubdiydt of a Motor Car. By Carolyn Wells. Illus. in color, 

12mo. Dodd, Mead & Co. 85 cts. net. 
Thrills of a Bell Boy. By Samuel Ellsworth Kiser. Illus., 

16mo, pp. 61. Chicago: Forbes & Co. 60 cts. 
Extra Dry : Being Further Adventures of the Water Wagon. 

By Bert Leston Taylor and W. C. Gibson. Illus., 18mo, 

pp. 120. G. W. Dillingham Co. 75 cts. 

BOOKS FOR THE YOUNG. 

Maitland Major and Minor. By Charles Turley. Illus., 12mo, 
pp. 319. E. P. Dutton & Co. $1.50. 

By Love's Sweet Rule. By Gabrielle E. Jackson. Illus., 
12mo, pp. 320. John C. Winston Co. 75 cts. 

The Page Story Book. Edited by Frank E. Spaulding and 
Catherine T. Bryce. Illus., 12mo, pp. 125. Charles Scribner's 
Sons. 50 cts. net. 

EDUCATION. 

Caesar's Gallic War, Book I.-V. Edited by Harold W. Johns- 
ton, Ph.D. and Frederick W. Sanford, A. B. Illus., 12mo, 
pp. 359. Benj. H. Sanborn & Co. 

Robert Louis Stevenson Reader. By Catherine T. Bryce. 
Illus. in color, 8vo, pp.88. Charles Scribner's Sons. 40cts.net. 

The Palmer Cox Brownie Primer. Text by Mary C. Judd ; 
pictures by Palmer Cox ; graded and edited by Montrose J. 
Moses. 8vo, pp. 108. Century Co. 

First Year of French, for Young Beginners. By J. E. Man- 
sion. 15mo, pp. 120. D. C. Heath & Co. 60 cts. 

Studies in English Syntax. By C. Alphonso Smith. 12mo, 
pp. 92. Ginn & Co. 50 cts. 

Dickens's A Tale of Two Cities. Edited by Huber Gray 
Buehler and Lawrence Mason. With frontispiece, 24mo, 
pp. 412. Macmillan Co. 26 cts. 

Longfellow's Tales of a Wayside Inn. Edited by J. H. 
Castleman, M.A. With frontispiece, 24mo, pp. 223. Mac- 
millan Co. 26 cts. , 

MISCELLANEOUS. 
The New Earth : A Recital of the Triumphs of Modern Agri- 
culture in America. By W. S. Harwood. Illus., 8vo, gilt top, 

pp. 378. Macmillan Co. $1.75 net. 
Western Culture in Eastern Lands : A Comparison of the 

Methods Adopted by England and Russia in the Middle East. 

By Arminius Vambery, C.V.O. Large 8vo, gilt top, pp. 410. 

E. P. Dutton & Co. $3.60 net. 
Camp Kits and Camp Life. By Charles Stedman Hanks 

("Niblick "). Illus., 12mo, pp. 268. Charles Scribner's Sons. 

$1.50 net. 
The Book of Tea. By Okakura-Kakuzo. 12mo, gilt top, pp. 160. 

Fox, Duffield & Co. $1.10 net. 
Imperial Purple. By Edgar Saltus. 12mo, gilt top, pp. 176. 

New York: Mitchell Kennerley. $1. net. 
The Sources of the First Ten Books of Augustine's De 

Civitate Dei : A Thesis. By S. Angus, M. A. Large 8vo, 

pp.274. Princeton (N. J.) Press. Paper, $1. 
Proceedings of the Political Science Association, 1905. 

Vol. II., large 8vo, pp. 232. Lancaster, Pa. : Wickersham Press. 
In Honor of James Whitcomb Riley. With portraits, 16mo, 

pp. 89. Bobbs-MerrUl Co. Paper. 
Patriotism and the New Internationalism. By Lucia 

Ames Mead. 16mo, pp. 122. Ginn & Co. Paper, 20 cts. net. 
Magazine Articles I Have Read. Arranged by Burton 

Emmett. 12mo, pp. 266. Dodd, Mead & Co. $1. net. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



373 



M Q Q PREPARED for publication and carefully typewritten. Foi 
i'lOO* particulars address T. A. W., 314 Second Ave., N. T. City 

ROOK'^ ALL OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS SUPPLIED 

L'^jy^*^*-'* no matter on what subject. Write us. We can get 
you any book ever published. Please state wants. Catalogue free 
BAKERS GREAT BOOK-SHOP, 14-16 Bright St, Bikminoham, Ens 






TO AUTHORS 

Szamination, criticism, literary and technical revision. Dis- 
tinctive typewriting. Proofreading. Manuscripts prepared for 
printer. Expert service by thorough workers. Moderate rates. 
Address H. A. STERN, care Dodd, Mead & Company, 

372 Fifth AvEmiE, NEW YORK. 






FOR ANY BOOK ON EARTH write to H. M. TIMBY, 

Book Hunter. Catalogues free. 1st Nat. Bank Bldg., Conneaut, 0. 




^^ Science; the Mind ^v 






^b 1-^: *L_ LJ ,. -c /^_^^ 


STORY-WRITERS, Biographers, Historians. PoeU-Do 

tKMk, or its skilled revision and correction, or advice as to publication! 
8uch work, said George William Curtis, is " done as it should be by Th« 
Basy Chair's friend and fellow laborer in letters, Dr. Titus M. Coan.' 
Terms by agreement. Send for circular D, or forward your book or MS 
to the New York Bureau of Revision, 70 Fifth Ave., Kew Tork. 




ivcvciduuii; uic 1 icciii oi vjou 

By J. IC. HARWELL 

A Busmess Man's Ideas of a Common Belief. 

^ Pamphlet. 25c ^ 

^^JACOBS & HOLMES. Publishets^^ 

^^ 167E.AdamiSt..aiicaao,ID. ^^ 




SUMMER CLASSES FOR THE STUDY 
OF ENGLISH 

Fifth Session, 1906, Cambridge, Mass. 

For Mcmuscrlpt Readers and Writers : The stndy and 
composition of English prose, and of short stories. 

For Teachers: Courses in "Idylls of the King," Fiction 
Modem English Grammar, Old English, etc. 




To anyone who may be interested in the Works of 

ROBERT G. rNGERSOLL 

we will present, FREE OF CHARGE, a fac simile manu- 
script of his famous poem, "The Birthplace of Burnt," 
now hanging in the Bums cottage at Ayr. Send postal to 
Dresden Publishing Company, New York City 


Send for full list of courses to 







H. A. DAVIDSON. The Study-Guide Series, Cambridge, Mass. 



WORK IN A LIBRARY 

Its pleasures and duties : How and what to 
study for it. Read PUBLIC LIBRARIES, 
a practical journal, monthly. $1. a year. 
Sample copy sent free. 

PUBLIC LIBRARIES 



156 Wabash Avenue 



CHICAGO 



IHsSTUDEBAKER 

iplne art0 IButldingr 

Michigan Boulevard, between Congress and 
Van Buren Streets, Chicago. 



MR. HE>TIY W. SAVAGE OFFERS 

The Student King 

With RAYMOND HITCHCOCK 



Count Tolstoy's Ne>^ Story 

The Divine and The Human. Part I. 

WUl be found in the June 2d issue of 

THE LIVING AGE 

It is one of his most striking and tragic tales of Russian life. 
The same number of the magazine contains the concluding 
paper in the series "From a College Window"; Dramatic 
Form and Substance by Philip Littell ; The Practical Angler 
by A. G. Bradley ; Some Account of a Slum by A. Gleig, and 
much else df interest. Send fifteen cents for this number, 
postpaid, or better, ONE DOLLAR for a trial subscription of 
Three Months, 13 numbers, and more than 800 pages. Can 
you make one dollar go farther for sununer reading? 

THE LIVING AQE CO., 6 Beacon St., Boston, Mass. 



WILLIAM R.JENKINS 

851 and 853 Sixth Avenue (cor. 4Stb Street) New York 
No branch ttoret 



FRENCH 

and other 
foreign 

BOOKS 



EEAD OtTB 

ROMANS CHOISIS SERIES 

26 Titles. Paper 60c. , cloth 86c. toL 

CONTES CHOISIS SERIES 

24 Titles. Paper 25c. , cloth 40c. vol. 
Uasterpieces, pure, by well-known authors. 
Read ezteosiTely by classes ; notes in English. 
List, also catalogue of all publications and 
imported books, on application. 



FRANKLIN'S BOYHOOD 

From the Autobiography ; Franklin's letters on War and 
Peace and his Plan for Western Colonies are just added 
to the Old South Leaflets, Nos. 161-163. 

No. 9, The Plan of Union, 1754, is another Franklin 
leaflet. 

Price, 5 cents a copy. 
Send for complete lists. 

DIRECTORS OF OLD SOUTH WORK 

Old South Meeting House 
WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON 



WHAT WE ARE DOING 
FOR LIBRARIANS 

We now have the most efficient department for the han- 
dling of Library orders. 

1. A tremendous miscellaneons stock. 

2. Greatly increased facilities for the importation of 
English publications. 

3. Competent bookmen to price lists and collect books. 
All this means prompt and complete shipments and right 

prices. ^^^^^^^ 

THE BAKER & TAYLOR CO., wholesale BookseUers 
33-37 East Seventeenth Street, New York 



374 


THE 




DIAL 


[June 1, 










OF 


THE BOOKS 
ALL PUBLISHERS 

are carried in our stock, 
which is larger and more 
general than that of any 
other house in the country. 




THREE FAST 

California Trains 

daily via the Chicago, Union Pacific & 
North-Western Line, over the only double 
track railway between Chicago and the 
Missouri River, 

The Overland Limited 






Fast through electric-lighted train to 
San Francisco and Portland. Most 
luxurious train in the world. Less than 
three days en route. 






LIBRARY ORDERS 

given prompt and intelligent 




Los Angeles Limited 

Electric-lighted through train arriving 
at Los Angeles afternoon of the third 
day, via the new Salt Lake Route. 
Entire new equipment. Drawing-Room 
and Tourist Sleeping cars, Composite- 
Observation cars. Dining cars. 








service. Our large stock 
and extensive library expe- 
rience enables us to give 
valuable aid and advice to 
libraries and librarians. 




TheChlna&JapanFastMall 






CATALOGUE CARDS and | 




To San Francisco, Los Angeles and 

Portland without change. Pullman 

jOl^^A Drawing-Room and Tourist 

^^K^^jjj Sleeping cars. Dining cars. 

S^^SSJ^ ^^^ booklets, maps, schedules' 
JgKm^^ rates, list of hotels, and descrip- 
^BBBBT ^°^ '^^ limited trains apply at 








CARD CABINETS 
We carry a special line and 
will be glad to furnish a 
price list. 




fflSSJk TICKIT OFFICKSi 
XIfRV sis Clark si. and Walls si. Sia. 
^*i*^ (Tel. Central 721.) 
OL107 






A. 


LIBRARY DEPARTMENT 

C. McCLURG & CO. 

CHICAGO 













Next Summer's Vacation 

Plan now on seeing Yellowstone Park, "Wonderland of the World." The finest coaching 
trip in America. The greatest of Nature's wonderful phenomena on every hand. 
Geysers, mud pools, tinted terraces, magnificent mountains, and bracing and invigorating 
mountain air. The best of hotels and accommodations. Write for <• Wonderland 1906," 
six cents. It tells about the Great Northwest and Yellowstone Park. 

Go via GARDINER GATEWAY, the Official Entrance, 

AND THE 

Northern Pacific Railway 

St. Paul and Minneapolis to the Pacific Northwest 



Write for particulars to 

C. A. MATTHEWS 

General Passenger Agent 

208 So. Clark St. 

Chicago, 111. 





1906.] 



THE DIAL 



37S 



THE "MAGAZINE PROBLEM" SOLVED 



YEARLY 

SUBSCRIPTION 

FIFTY 

CENTS 



G)h2Ct s in 

f^ Guide JcnD Index 
To 1^\e Confetti's of tlie 
Curreutr 'Period ica,ls 



•Publishca ©onthly by 
Chiczioo 



SINGLE 
COPIES 

FIVE 
CENTS 



CIt is the purpose of this little publication to make the mass of current 
magazine literature accessible to the every-day reader, — to show just 
what the leading periodicals contain and to indicate the general character 
and scope of the principal articles. It is not a library index, — there 
are no confiising abbreviations or cross-references. The arrangement is 
of the simplest and most convenient sort, to meet the needs of the average 
busy reader. Each issue presents a bird's-eye view of the magazines of 
the month, that will give one in five minutes the information hitherto to 
be obtained only by long and tedious examination of contents-pages on 
the news-stands. 



Opp^l A| F'ora limited period, "WHAT 'S IN THE MAGAZINES" 

^' ^^^''^^ will be sent to any reader of this advertisement for one 

f\^^^ n year on receipt of 25 cents in stamps or currency — just 

V^i I t im half the regular price. Specimen copy free on request. 



the; DIAL COMPANY, Publishers, Fine Arts Buildixg, CHICAGO 



376 THE DIAL [June 1,1906. 

THE JOURNAL OF 

POLITICAL ECONOMY 

WITH the beginning of the current year, this important journal 
was changed from a quarterly to a monthly. It is believed 
that its value as a record of practical economics will now be greater 
than ever. The support which has been accorded The Journal during 
its thirteen years of publication warrants the editors' confidence at 
this time in assuming the additional expense involved in monthly 
publication. 

The present year has been an eventful one for The Journal. Wide- 
spread interest was aroused by the following articles in particular: 

"Railway Rates as Protective Tariffs" 

By HUGO R. MEYER 

"Government Regulation of Railway Rates" 

By B. H. MEYER 

"The Employment of Women in Industries" 

By SOPHONISBA P. BRECKINRIDGE 

"The Unions versus Higher Wages" 

By J. LAURENCE LAUGHLIN 

"Municipal Ownership in Great Britain" 

By EVERETT W. BURDETT 

We are still in a position to supply these interesting numbers if 
orders for the complete volume are received. Subscriptions may 
therefore be entered dating from the beginning of the year. 

The Journal will continue to represent the views of the economists 
of America in the broadest and most impartial way. It deserves the 
support of all scholars, journalists, and men of affairs who wish to keep 
in touch with contemporary thought on these subjects. 

$3.00 a year, postpaid. Single copies, 35 cts. Foreign subscriptions, $3.50. 

ADDRESS, DEPT. 20 

THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO PRESS 

CHICAGO AND NEW YORK 



THE DIAL PBE6S, FINE ABT3 BUILDINO, CBICASO 



V 

[»uhlir 



\ 



"^Wj^ 



THE DIAL 

Jl SEMI-MONTHLY JOURNAL OF 

^tttrarn Criluism, giscussion, anb Information. 



Edited by 'X Volume XL. 

FRANCIS F. BROWNEJ -Vo. USO. 



CHICAGO, JITNE 16, 1906. 



10 ctt. a copy 
t2. a year 



■{ 



FixB AsTS BuiuinTo 
203 Michigan Blvd. 



SCRIBNER BOOKS for SUMMER READING 



JOSEPH JEFFERSON 
Reminiscences of a Fellow Player 

By FRAjfcis Wilson 
Illustrated. 8vo. ^.00 net. Postpaid. 12.19. 
"A treasure house of Jeflersonian anecdote." — Boston 
Tranfcript. 

" Mr. Wilson has produced a pleasing and worthy portrait 
of one whom the theatre goers of America will long cherish 
in fond remembrance." — 77ie Dial. 

THE OPAL SEA 

By John C. Van Dtke 
12mo. $1.25. Postage, 12 cents. 

THE SEASONS IN A FLOWER 
GARDEN 

By Louise Shelton 
Illustrated. 12mo. $1.00 net. Postage, 10 cents. 
" It is a pretty little book . . . practical and usefuL" — A'^w 
York Sun. 



LEO TOLSTOY 

Childhood and Early Manhood 

Autobiographical Memoirs, Letters, and Biographical Mate- 
rial, compiled by Paci, BrBCKOP and revised by Lbo Toubtot. 

8to. tl.50 net. Postage, 14 cents. 
" Tolstoy has set the stamp of his approval on this biog- 
raphy." — -Veu- I'ork Evening Mail. 

" Much of this material is of an absorbing nature to anyone 
who has ever attempted to unravel the mystery of this great 
Russian's personality." — Providence Journal. 

MY LITTLE BOY 

By Cakl Ewald 
Translated by A. Teixeiba de Mattos. 16mo. $1.00. 
"It is the sweetest biography we remember." — TTie Inde- 
pendent. 

CONCERNING PAUL AND 
FIAMMETTA 

By L. At.t.f/w Harkkr 
With an Introduction by Kate Docglas Wigoin. 
" The humor is always spontaneous and delightful." — Mat 
Sinclair. 



CAMP KITS AND CAMP LIFE 

By Chables Stkdman Hanks ('"Niblick,") author of " Hints to Golf ere." 

Illustrated. 8vo. $1.50 net. Postage. 12 cents. 

" A complete encyclopaedia of the requisites for camping, practical and helpful, and should drive all who can get there to 

the woods." — yew York Sun. 



FICTION 



LUCY OF THE STARS 

By Frederick Palmer 

niustrated. 12mo. $1.50. 
"This is one of the novels that is worth while." — Chicago 
Record- Hera Id. 

SIX STARS 

By Nelson Lloyd 
Illustrated. 12mo. $1.50. 
" The best book of short stories that has been published in 
the last je&T.'' — lA)uitville Times. 

THE PRISONER OF ORNITH FARM 

By Frances Powell 

12mo. $1.50. 

"A fine piece of work luminous with wit." — TTie Argonaut. 



BOB AND THE GUIDES 

By Mary R. S. Andrews 
illustrated. 12mo. $1.50. 
"Exceedingly inteiresting and entertaining." — Baltimore 
yeu-s. 

THE TOWER 

By Mary Tappan Wright 
12mo. $1J0. 
" Distinguished by character insight and quiet humor, un- 
usual both in depth and quality." — Ch icago Record-Herald. 

THE LAW-BREAKERS 

By Robert Grant 
12mo. $1.25. 
" He has the happy faculty of making his readers stop to 
think." — Sprin'jfield Republican. 



THE DAWN OF A TOMORROW 

By Fr-ancbs Hodgson Bcrnett 

Illustrated in colors. $1.50. 

"It is a call to sunniness. to confidence, to optimism, and to charity." — Cleveland Leader. 



CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS 



NEW YORK 



378 THE DIAL [June 16, 1906. 



Important New Macmillan Books 

The new novel by the author of 'The Crisis," "Richard Carvel," etc. 

Mr. Winston ChurchilFs new novel 

ConistOn WUl be ready Jime 20 

Illustrated hy Florence Scovel Shinn. Cloth. $1 50 

This is said to be the best work yet done by the author of " Richard 

Carvel," whose work, says the Chicago Tribune, "in breadth of canvas, 

massing" of dramatic effect, depth of feeling-, and rare wholesomeness 

of spirit has seldom if ever been surpassed in an American romance.'' 



Mr. Owen Wister's new novel Lady Baltimore 

By the author of *' The A'^irginian." (Charraingiy illustrated.) 
" A triumph of art . . . the best interpretation of the spirit of the Old South that has been made 
... a true American novel in subject, spirit, and atmosphere." — Editorial by Hamilton Mabie, 
in The Outlook. 
With pen drawings by Vernon Howe Bailey, and other illustrations. Cloth, fl,50 

Mr. John Luther Long's neiv novel The Way of the Gods 

" There can be no doubt as to the artistic quality of his story. It rings true with the g-olden ring of 
chivalry and of woman's love, it rings true for all lovers of romance, wherever they be . . . and is 
told with an art worthy of the idea." — New York Mail. Cloth, ^1.50 

" Barbara's " new book The Garden, You and I 

Mabel Osgood Wright's new story is on the order of her most popular book, " The Garden of a Com- 
muter's Wife," introducing new and delightful characters. 
Illustrated from photographs, including a frontispiece in colors. Cloth, '^J.50 

Mr. Ernest Ingersoll's new book The Life of Animals— Mammals 

It is the daily life of the animal that is emphasized here, rather than his imagined emotions, or his 

place in a museum of anatomy. It is the best boys' book on natural history. 

Illustrated with colored plates, unpublished photographs from life, and many original drawings. 

Cloth, $2.00 net (postage. 23 cents) 

Mr. W. S. Harwood's new book The New Earth 

The new book by the author of " New Creations in Plant Life." It aims to describe interestingly 

the wonderful progress of recent years in all industries having their focal point in the earth. 

With many illustrations from photographs. Cloth, $1.75 net (postage, 14 cents) 

Mr. James Outram's In the Heart of the Canadian Rockies 

" Every lover of the wide out-door world, every enthusiastic hill climber, every artist or non-technical 
admirer of the beautiful in nature, will welcome this book." — Bulletin American Geographical Society. 
Illustrated from fine photographs. Second Edition. $2.50 net (postage 22 cents) 

Mr. John Spargo's The Bitter Cry of the Children 

" Nothing is more important than that such facts as are described in this book should be known to the 
public. . . . The United States is simply behind the times in the care of its children."— Con^repfafiona/isf. 

Illustrated from photographs. Cloth, -$1.50 net (postage, 13 cents) 

Mrs. Saint Maur's capital book A Self-Supporting Home 

" Has the interest of a good story and the value of practical hints in country economy." — Plain Dealer. 
Illustrated from photographs. Cloth, $1.75 net (postage, 15 cents) 

PUBLISHED r^YiE MACMILLAN COMPANY ' Vk w^^fo^t^^ ' 



THE DIAL 

a S:tmi'-fR.an1^\v 3onmaI of litfrarg Critmsm, Sisrassion, anl> Informatunu 



No. 4S0. 



JUNE 16, 1906. 



Vol. XL. 



Contexts. 

PASS 

IBSEN DrrmE 379 

COMMUNICATIONS :^80 

A DistingTiished Editorial Career. IF. H. Johnson. 
A New Theory of English Metre. Edward P. 

Morton. 

A ROLLICKING IRISH STORY-TELLER. Percy 

F. BickneU 382 

NTIW THEORIES OF THE EARTH'S HISTORY. 

H. Foster Bain .384 

LORD RANDOLPH CHLTICHILL. E. D. Adams 385 

LIFE -SAVING AS A MILITARY SCIENCK 

WiUiam Elliot Griffis 388 

A PHILOSOPHICAL RADICAL ON THE GREEK 

STAGE. F. B. B. HeUems 389 

BRIEFS ON NEW BOOKS 391 

Thoughtful studies of past, present, and future. — 
The Jew in Southern life and society. — On the 
nature and origin of living matter. — The best 
reading at smallest cost. — Tales of the old South- 
west border. — Two examples of the book beautiful. 
— Mr. Andrew Lang on Sir Walter Scott. — Indis- 
pensable to the European tourist. — Organ music, 
its history and development. — Autobiography of 
a Russian revolutionist. 

NOTES 395 

LEST OF NTHiV BOOKS 396 



IBSEN INTIME. 



"Goethe's heart, which few knew, was as 
great as his intellect, which all know." This 
was Jung-Stilling's tribute to the personality of 
the great ix)et who is often taken as the type of 
OljTnpian detachment from the petty preoccu- 
pations of onlinarv humanity. It is the fate of 
genius to be misunderstood by the commonalty. 
The loftier its expression, and the more sweeping 
its universalit}', the less does genius concern 
itseK with those accidents of life which are the 
whole, or nearly the whole, of existence to the 
commonplace mvdtitude. The average man, 



made vaguely uncomfortable by such glimpses 
of the eternal verities as he gets when he at- 
tempts to share the vision of some great spirit, 
restores the balance of his self-satisfaction by 
charging the poet with heartlessness, or cynicism, 
or cold selfishness, or some other disagreeable 
quality. Among the writers of our owti time, 
Ibsen has been particularly singled out as the 
target for this sort of criticism, yet we imagine 
that Jung-Stilling's words about Groethe would 
closely fit Ibsen's case also, and that it is the 
critics themselves who are really chargeable with 
defective sympathies. 

Ibsen presented, no doubt, a somewhat grim 
front to the world of superficial observers, and 
die comparative solitude of soul in which he 
worked out his problems upon the ethical chess- 
board was reflected in the hermit-like habit of his 
visible existence. But ail this was nothing more 
llian the iron restraint demanded by his self- 
imposed task : he felt himself bound to husband 
and concentrate his energies ; he did not dare 
to squander any considerable fraction of them 
upon barren social interests and relationships. 
He had sufficient strength of will to make this 
sacrifice, but there is much reason to believe that 
he felt it keenly, and that volcanic fires were 
at play beneath the cold crust of his outward 
seeming. Is not this what we really mean when 
we speak of any man as "crusty,"' and is not the 
word, rightly considered, a term of praise rather 
than of reproach ? 

TVlioever reads with discernment the plays 
and poems of Ibsen will have no difficxilty in 
finding passages which reveal the warmest of 
human sympathies, passages which fairly throb 
with the feelings of a singularly sensitive nature. 
Not only the romantic effusions of his early man- 
hood, but the ripest of the series of dramatic 
social studies peld such fruit as this. And 
the ineffable tenderness of certain scenes in 
" Brand " and " Peer Gynt " most emphatically 
give the lie to the assertion that their author 
was a " cold hater of his kind," a morose and 
heartless spectator of the tragi-comedy of life. 
These scenes make us feel that he had to sub- 
ject himself to strong compulsion to keep from 
lapsing into an emotionalism that would have 
defeated the essential purpose of his work, and 



380 



THE DIAL 



[June 16, 



to ignore them is to be wilfully blind to his deep- 
est teachings. 

These revelations of the Ibsen intime who 
was conjoined with the dramatic teclmician are 
clear enough for all except the most careless 
observers, and they may readily be corroborated 
by the sort of personal evidence wliich has to be 
our sole reliance in the case of men who produce 
no works whereby they may be judged. We 
can recall many instances of pilgrims, often total 
strangers, who have sought out " the old bard 
in the solitary house," and returned to tell of 
the sincerity of their reception and the warmth 
of their welcome. Their report has been of no 
ogTC, but of a human being, wrapped indeed in 
simple dignity, but the embodiment of kindly 
human sympathies and interests. 

When we turn to the recently-published let- 
ters of the great Norwegian, we shall find no lack 
of the personal element needed as a corrective of 
the impression produced by the works alone. 
Here are some extracts from a letter addressed 
to his sister : 

" Months have passed since I received your kind let- 
ter — and only now do I answer it. But so much stands 
between and separates us, separates me from home. 
Understand this, please, and do not think that it is in- 
difference which has kept me silent all these long years, 
and even this summer. I camiot write letters; I must 
be near in person and give myself wholly and entirely. 
... So our dear old mother is dead. I thank you for 
having so lovingly fulfilled the duties which were in- 
cumbent on us all. You are certainly the best. I do 
a great deal of wandering about the world. Who knows 
but that I may come to Norway next summer; then I 
must see the old home to which I still cling with so 
many roots. Give father my love ; explain to him about 
me — all that you understand so well, and that he per- 
haps does not. ... Do not think that I lack the warmth 
of heart which is the first requisite where a true and 
vigorous spiritual life is to tlirive." 

Side by side with this letter we must place 
the one of eight years later, written upon receipt 
of the news of his father's death. 

"The occasion of my writing you to-day you will, 
dear uncle, easily guess. The foreign papers and a letter 
from Hedvig have informed me of my old father's 
death ; and I feel impelled to express my heartfelt thanks 
to all those of the family whose affectionate assistance 
has made life easier for him for so many years, and who 
have, therefore, done in my behalf or in my stead what 
imtil quite lately I have not been in a position to do. 
... It has been a great consolation to me to know that 
my parents were surrounded by attached relatives; and 
the thanks that I now offer for all the kind assistance 
rendered to those who are gone, are also due for the 
assistance thereby rendered myself. Yes, dear imcle, 
let me tell you, and ask you in turn to tell the others, 
tliat your and their fulfillment, out of affection for my 
parents, of what was my boimden duty, has been a great 
support to me during my toils and endeavours, and has 
furthered the accomplishment of my work in this world." 



The real Ibsen is very apparent in the two 
family letters from which quotation has just been 
made. And it is apparent in many scattered 
passages concerning his domestic affairs, pas- 
sages which reveal the sympathetic aspect of his 
relations with his wife, and the solicitude with 
which he superintended the education of his only 
son. There is also the evidence of a real genius 
for friendship in the letters to Brandes, Hegel, 
and a few others — even in the letters to and 
about Bjornson, for Ibsen's break with the latter 
was an affair of the intellect, which, although it 
tugged at his heart-strings, did not tear them 
asunder. It is true that Ibsen did not admit 
many friends to his intimacy — deeming them 
a luxury denied him by his sacred mission, — but 
he gi'appled the chosen few to his soul ^vith 
hoops of steel. And if he did not freely give 
himself to others in life, he assuredly did so in 
his books, which need only to be read aright to 
reveal a rich and many-sided j)ersonality rather 
than the coldly intellectual monster of popidar 
legend. 

COMMUNICATIONS. 



A DISTINGUISHED EDITORIAL CAREER. 
(To the Editor of The Dial.) 

Editorial continuity is so rare a virtue in the period- 
ical literature of the time that one might well be jjar- 
doned for forgetting that it exists at all. Even the 
permanence of an individual editor is no guarantee of 
permanence in editorial policy, for editors themselves 
are often prone to strike the momentarily popular note. 
In a period of such capricious change, a long career of 
editorial work upon lines wisely chosen and consistently 
maintained constitutes one of the most valuable services 
which it is in the power of an educated and thoughtfid 
citizen to render to American life and literature. 

Length and quality of service both considered, we 
know no more honorable example of such a career than 
that of Mr. Wendell Phillips Garrison, who has felt 
constrained to pass over to yomiger shoulders the edi- 
torial responsibility for " The Nation," which he has 
borne so admirably from the initial number down to the 
end of the present volume. Associated with the late 
Mr. Godkin in all the earlier years of this career, Mr. 
Garrison applied to the field of literature the same high 
standards that his colleague insisted upon in the realm 
of politics. No literary " fad " was ever reflected in the 
columns of his paper because it was popular, no shabby 
woi'k was praised or condoned through a desire to pro- 
pitiate an influential author or publisher. Mr. Garrison's 
editorial plan had no place in it for the exploitation of 
any individual, least of all of himself. Year after year 
" The Nation " has borne to its readers, without the 
slightest indication of authorship, the work of men so 
distinguished in the field of scholarsliip and letters that 
many periodicals would have blazoned their names across 
the cover in huge letters as the chief feature of the 
issue. Of course there are those who believe in signed 
rather than unsigned reviews, and have good grounds 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



381 



for their opinion. We do not discuss that question here, 
but merely call attention to Mr. Garrison's unswerving 
adherence to his ideal, although he was able to command 
the collaboration of men whose mere names could readily 
have been used to the material advantage of his paper. 
His steady aim was to give to " The Nation " a character 
and influence of its own, wholly independent of the 
various and necessarily changing personalities engaged 
in its production ; and in this aim he has achieved a dis- 
tinguished success. The foundations which he has laid 
give to his followers a magnificent opportunity. They 
take over a periodical whose influence with its constit- 
uency, a constituency of exceptional cultivation and 
thoughtfulness, has rarely had its counterpart in the 
history of the American periodical press. They are 
men who have observed the methods by which a 
great literary institution has been built up, and it is 
safe to assume that they are aware of the hold which 
that institution possesses upon the respect and affection 
of its constituency. It is to be assumed that they will 
take pride in maintaining the high ideals which have 
had so firm a rooting and so steady a growth under the 
direction of Mr. Garrison, and with those ideals to mark 
their general course no one will begrudge them the 
legitimate exercise of their individual gifts in the conduct 
of the work to which, thanks to efforts of their prede- 
cessor, we may call it their distinguished good fortime 
to have been chosen. As for Mr. Garrison himself, 
everyone will hope that the laying down of his editorial 
burden will leave him still many years of health and 
comfort, with physical strength suifficient to put into 
permanent form some record of the impressions which 
his unique editorial experience of so many years has 
left upon him. W. H. Johnson. 

Granville, Ohio, June IS, 1906. 



A NEW THEORY OF ENGLISH METRE. 
(To the Editor of Thk Dial.) 

Theories of English versification have been so numer- 
ous, so hopelessly contradictory, and so regardless of 
passages which nullify their validity, that most students 
either ignore all theories and follow their own whims or 
else fall back upon dogma and defy exceptions. In 
twenty years, of many books and essays on the subject 
only two in English have won anything like unstinted 
and general praise ; and they are not praised because 
they have set forth satisfying theories. The delight 
which most students have taken in Professor Mayor's 
" Chapters on English Metre " is due, I think, rather to 
his willingness to admit other points of view than to 
any g^reat success in explaining contradictory passages. 
Professor Alden's " English Verse," although surprising 
for the amount of its material and the skill with which 
it is arranged, is so far from solving the many problems 
which it states with great care and precision, that it 
provoked one well-known writer to suggest, in "The 
Atlantic," his willingness to dispense with theories 
altogether. 

As a matter of history, it can be shown that the 
varying theories held from generation to generation have 
modified, sometimes in important respects, the practice 
of our poets. Happily, however, most of our poets have 
risen superior to the bonds of imperfect theories, and 
have left perennially delightful and satisfying poetry. 
It is hard to believe, therefore, that there is not some 
law of verse which is really fundamental, and which has 
thus far escaped clear statement and general acceptance 



only because, under its Protean applications, we have 
failed to recognize its simplicity. 

In 1903, Mr. T. S. Omond issued " A Study of Metre " 
(London: Grant Richards), a thoughtful and acute essay, 
which seems thus far to have attracted relatively little 
attention. Within a few months, Mr. Omond has again 
entered the field with a pamphlet entitled " Metrical 
Rhythm " (Tunbridge Wells : R. Pelton, 1905), in which 
he applies his theory to the examination of another 
pamphlet, " The Basis of English Rhythm," by Will- 
iam Thomson (Glasgow: W. & R. Holmes, 1904). Mr. 
Thomson's essay is at least difBcult to understand, and 
unsatisfactory, even after patient study. Mr. Omond's 
theory, however, seems to me so reasonable and so ade- 
quate as to deserve open-minded consideration. 

Mr. Omond's theory is, briefly, that we confuse syl- 
lables, which only mark the time, with the time itself. 
The tune of the different feet in a line is relatively the 
same, but this time may be more or less fully taken up 
by the syllables. In Mr. Omond's own words: 

" If periods constitate rhythm, they must do so by unifonn 
succession. Syllables do not supply this abeolnte recorrenoe; 
their order of succession is chaneefnl, capricious. They need to 
be contrasted with underlying onifonnity. That substratum 
seons afforded by time. Itochronu* periodt form the units of 
metre. Syllabic variation gets its whole force from contrast 
with these, is conceivable only in relation to these." (Study of 
Metre, 4. > 

" Syllables exist before verse handles than, and are not 
wholly amenable to its handling. They cannot be coaxed to 
keep exact time, and of course cannot be chopped or carved into 
fragments. From this very inability. p>oets in their unconscioos 
inspiration draw beauty. They delight us by maintaining a con- 
tinual slight conflict between syllables and time. It must not 
go too far, or the sense of rhythm perishes, and the line becomes 
heavy, inert,, prosy. But within limits the contest is unceasing." 
(Metrical Rhythm. 21. i 

" Accentual scansionists nearly always minimize the differ- 
ence between verse and prose. For, taking English syllables by 
themselves, there is reaUy no difference. The difference — a real 
and true one — lies in the setting. Verse seta syllables to equal 
tfane-measores, prose to unequal. When either poaches on the 
other's preserve, we are apt to resent it. One heroic line in prose 
may escat>e notice, but hardly a second. That the difference 
does not lie in the syllables themselves appears from the fact 
that the same sentence may sometimes be read as prose and 
sometimes as verse. When we first read ' And the doors shall be 
shut in the streets when the sotmd of the grrinding is low,' we 
probably hear it as prose ; but once let it be compared with — 
* I am out of humanity's reach, 
I must finish my journey alone,' 
and it wiU be difficult ever after not to receive an impression of 
vCTse." (lb., 24.) 

" Just as the difference between prose and verse is one of 
setting, so is the difference between duple and triple metre. It 
depends on bow we hear the time-beats. Mr. Thomson says 
(foot of p. 36^, 'Had Mr. Lanier or Mr. Omond met "Who 
would believe" or "Seemed to have known" in Browning's 
'Kentish Sir Byng stood for his king,' they would have had 
no doubt at all of its triple character.' I should have had no 
doubt that the words were then set to triple rhythm, because to 
my mind that is clearly the time of Browning's poem ; but when 
I meet these phrases in heroic or octosyllabic verse, I read them 
to a different time. In themselves the syllables are not metrical, 
but they can be set to either rhythm. The poem gives rhythm 
to the syllables, not the syllables to the poem. ' For poets do not 
adjust time to syllables, but syllables to time.' " (lb., 25.) 

Almost ever since Mr. Omond's Study appeared, I 
have been testing his theory upon the numerous puzzling 
lines with which our good poetry is sown thick. Thus 
far it seems to me fairly to meet all difficulties, and to 
harmonize apparently conflicting notions in a way that 
is Uluminating and satisfying. I wish very much that 
others would test Mr. Omond's ideas; if he is right, 
we shall have a more solid basis to bmld on; if he is 
wrono- or only partly right, honest criticism will cer- 
tainly be instructive. Edward P. Morton. 

Indiana University, Jwne 5, 1906. 



382 



THE DIAL 



[June 16, 



C^« ^cto §00 hs. 



A Rollicking Irish Story-Teller.* 



Mr. Saintsbury has well said that " person- 
ally, Lever was doubtless a charming companion, 
and for mere companionship his books are 
charming enough still. Only they must not be 
regarded as books, but simply as reports of the 
conversation of a lively raconteur ^ 

True as it is that excessive bookishness is the 
bane of creative authorship, it is equally beyond 
question that a little more of this quality in 
Lever would have improved the exuberant out- 
put of his rollicking fancy by reducing its chaotic 
extravagance to better form. Thus a good life 
of our effervescent Irishman might well furnish 
more delight to confirmed book-readers than do 
his wonderful attempts at novel- writing. The 
biography by Dr. W. J. Fitzpatrick, published 
twenty-seven years ago, was felt by the family 
to be far from faultless. Chronologically inac- 
curate it certainly is, and the complaint has 
been raised against it that somehow it tends to 
leave the reader depressed rather than elevated, 
which no true picture of the jovial Lever would 
be expected to do. Mr. Edmimd Downey, in 
his recently issued work, " Charles Lever : His 
Life in his Letters," seeks to correct the earlier 
biographer's errors, and by confining himself 
mainly to the novelist's own revelations of him- 
self in his letters, in his early " Log-Book of a 
Rambler," and in the autobiographical prefaces 
to eight of his novels — prefaces that he wrote 
in the last year of his life, and therefore unfor- 
tunately left incomplete — Mr. Downey has 
produced what seems to be a trustworthy account 
of the man, so far as it goes ; and the average 
reader will probably think, on viewing the two 
400-page volumes, that it goes quite far enough. 
Yet not even its careful workmanship gives it 
the flavor of an ideal biography. But ideal 
biographies are as rare as violets in October, 
and perhaps the subject in this instance does not 
admit of an ideal book. One attraction, how- 
ever, it does have for intending buyers : its price 
is less purgative to the purse than that of many 
current English two-volume works of like char- 
acter. 

With a disinterested desire to secure the best 
possible life of his hero, Mr. Downey had asked 
Lever's eldest daughter, Mrs. Nevill, to attempt 
the task. This wa s ten years ago ; but the lady's 

•Charles Lever: His Life in his Letters. By Edmund 
Downey. In two volumes. With portraits. New York: E. P. 
Button & Co. 



sudden death thwarted that plan, and now Mr, 
Downey himself, making use of many letters 
placed at his disposal, essays the portrayal of 
Charles Lever, the author, seeking, as he says^ 
to present him " in a more intimate and pleasing 
light than the picture which is furnished by Dr. 
Fitzpatrick." The preface proceeds in further 
explanation : 

" Incidentally many errors into which Dr. Fitzpatrick 
had fallen are corrected, but I am not making any at- 
tempt to supersede his painstaking, voluminous, and 
interesting biography. Dr. Fitzpatrick declares that his 
book ' largely embraces the earlier period of Lever's^ 
life ' ; the present work deals mainly with his literary 
life, and contains, especially in the second volume, fresh 
and illuminating material which was not disclosed to- 
Lever's previous biographer, and which affords an inti- 
mate view of the novelist as he saw himself and his work." 

The letters of Lever are in much the same 
scrambling style as his books, and from them 
nothing like a complete life of him could be pro- 
duced. Accordingly we are glad to find in the 
first volume no fewer than 119 pages of Mr. 
Downey's filling-in, as well as 35 pages from 
" The Log-Book of a Rambler," an account of 
early European wanderings and German-student 
life that originally appeared, in large part, in 
" The Dublin Literary Gazette " at intervals 
during the year 1830. Mr. Downey's second 
volume has far less matter from his own pen. 
In truth, it is safe to say that most readers would 
gladly have more of the modest biographer and 
less of the not so modest hero of his narrative. 
Comment and criticism, even where we disagree, 
make pleasant reading, and help to relieve the 
monotony. And monotonous Lever's letters, 
in spite of their Leveresque qualities, do tend to 
become when offered in so generous instalments 
as Mr. Downey has seen fit to publish. 

As an outline of Lever's life, it may be con- 
venient to recall that he was bom in Dublin 
Aug. 31, 1806, g.s nearly as can now be deter- 
mined ; for even this initial date the reckless 
Irishman, unregardfid of future biographers,^ 
left in much uncertainty. He even allowed 
" Men of the Time " to state that he was bom 
in 1809 — -perhaps because of the much good 
company he found in that year. He received 
a medical education, and practised successfully 
at home and abroad, especially at Brussels, 
where he somewhat unwarrantably styled himself 
Physician to the British Embassy. For a few 
years he edited " The Dublin University Maga- 
zine," an uncongenial task, but from 1845 he 
dwelt almost uninterruptedly abroad, chiefly at 
Florence, Spezzia, and Trieste — in a considar 
capacity at the last two places. His story-writing 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



383 



went on meanwhile up to the time of his death 
in 1872, at Trieste. To the vnie of his youth, 
it is pleasant to leam, this arch- Bohemian was 
affectionately devoted throughout her life, which 
closed two years before his own. To her mem- 
ory he was no less loyally true. So attached 
had he become to this lady in his courting days 
that he privately wedded her, against the wishes 
of his parents, who desired for their brilliant 
son a gootl match in a pecuniary sense : whereas 
Miss Kate Baker, of County Meath, had little 
but her personal charms and her virtues to 
recommend her. 

The " Log- Book," which forms Mr. Downey's 
second chapter, is most agreeable reading, the 
more so jjerhaps because it is so hard to tell 
whether fact is not often tinged ynth fiction. 
Two student duels at Gottingen, one of them a 
grave affair with pistols, prove especially in- 
spiring to young Lever's graphic and lively pen. 
The letters, which claim the biographer's space 
in an increasing degree as we read on, are fidl 
of the writer's hopes of worldly atlvancement. 
In fact, not a few of them ti-eat very largely of 
pounds, shillings, and penc«, or their continental 
equivalents. Here are portions of two tyijical 
letters from Brussels, written soon after Lever 
had established himself in practice there. Dots 
and brackets are retained as in the pi-inted copy. 

"Although Brussels fulfils all ray expectations, I 
might be ultimately tempted to try my luck in London 
or Paris [as a medical man] .... Attending to an out- 
break of measles has prevented me from sending my 
usual contribution to the Mag. ... I have definitely 
raised my fees from 5 francs to 10 francs — double that 
of any other English physician, and five times the fee 
of the Belgian practitioner. . . . The sister of the Am- 
bassador has recovered under my hands from what was 
universally believed to be a fatal case of spasmodic 
croup. . . . There is nothing but gaiety and going out 
here every night, and I am half wishing for smnmer to 
have a little rest and quietness." 

" I am carrying ahead with a very strong hand, and 
have little dances weekly. I had three earls and two 
ambassadors on Tuesday, and am keeping that set ex- 
clusively in my interest." 

This " carrying ahead with a very strong 
hand " was Lever's weakness through life. 
Though he earned large simis from his writings, 
and enjoyed also a good income as a physician, 
and later as consul, he coidd not resist the 
charms of horseflesh and of the green table. His 
life, in short, was as chaotic and ill-regulated 
as that of Harry Lorrequer or Charles O'Malley. 
He seems to have been more eager for and 
dependent upon adidation than even his contem- 
porary Dickens, and to have had considerably 
less of solid and enduring resources in himself 



than had the bi-illiant-necktied English novelist. 
But let us quote a most favorable description 
of him from the pen of Miss Mary Boyle, a 
bright woman, a clever writer, and a friend of 
Tennyson, Dickens, the Brownings, and other 
contemporary litter ati. Li a letter of 1879 she 
i-ecalls Lever as " one of the most genidl spirits " 
she had ever met. 

" His conversation was like summer lightning — 
brilliant, sparkling, harmless. In his wildest sallies I 
never heard him give utterance to an unkind thought. 
He essentially resembled his works, and whichever you 
preferred, that one was most like Charles Lever. He 
was the complete type and model of an Irishman — 
warm-hearted, witty, rollicking, never unrefined, im- 
prudent, often blind to his own interests — adored by 
his friends, and the playfellow of his children and the 
gigantic boar-hound he had brought from the Tyrol." 

That Lever did not care to fraternize with the 
Brownings, his feUow-Florentines, one can easily 
aecoimt for ; but let us hear our author's expla- 
nation. 

« The only plausible explanation of Lever's neglect 
of the Brownings is that he did not feel quite at ease in 
the presence of the author of ' Aurora Leigh.' When 
he sought mental relaxation, after a hard day's work, 
he sought it in the society of those who were content to 
listen to his agreeable rattle rather than in the society 
of those to whom he should lend his ears. He was by 
no means insensible to feminine charms, mental or 
physical. He gloried in praise coming from the mouths 
of intellectual women. But the woman of genius was 
not the comrade he coveted in his hours of ease: the 
companionship of men — of good talkers or good lis- 
teners — was what he craved." 

Dr. Fitzpatrick, as the reader is reminded 
by a footnote, makes the surprising assertion 
that Lever was intimately associated with the 
Bro\Naiings in Florence, and " found real charm 
in the companionship " — which a letter of Mrs. 
Browning's to Miss Mitford, quoted by Mr. 
Do\\Tiey, abundantly disproves. Lever's never- 
satisfied longing for inward peace finds utterance 
in the following extract from one of his letters 
to John Blackwood, of which the second volume 
contains rather more than a sufficiency. Writing 
from Trieste in 1868, the novelist thus despond- 
ently imbosoms himself to his friendly publisher : 

"It is a great aggravation to dying to feel that I 
must be buried here. I never hated a place or people 
so much, and it is a hard measure to lay me down 
amongst them where I have no chance of getting away 
till that grand new deal of the pack before distributing 
the stakes. I wish I could write one more O'D. — 
' the last O'Dowd.' I have a number of little valueless 
legacies to leave the world, and could put them into 
codieU form and direct their destination. . . . The 
cheque came all right, but I was not able to thank you 
at the time. Give my love to Mrs. Blackwood, and say 
that it was always fleeting across me, in moments of 
relief, I was to meet you both again and be very jolly 



384 



THE DIAL 



[June 16, 



And light-hearted. Who knows ! I have moments still 
that seem to promise a rally; hut there must be a long 
spell of absence from pain and anxiety — not so easy 
things to accomplish." 

It is a relief to learn, from other sources, that 
when death did come to this good-natured but 
sadly improvident fellow-countrynian of Gold- 
smith, his family was left in better circumstances 
than might have been expected. And the last 
scene itseK of this unquiet life was beautifully 
peaceful, as depicted by Mrs. Porter (an eye- 
Avitness) in " The House of Blackwood," from 
which Mr. Downey has, in closing, reproduced 
a few paragraphs. 

Two portraits of Lever, young and old, deco- 
rate the volumes, and they are as unlike as were 
ever two pictures of one who in youth was 
unmistakably father of the mature man. Mr. 
Downey's index — if a critic may be allowed the 
privilege of a parting grumble — leaves much to 
be desired. One looks in vain for references 
to Dublin, Brussels, Florence, Spezzia, Trieste, 
and other milestones in Lever's life-journey ; 
and as there is no entry for " Charles Lever," 
the main events of his very eventful life must 
be gathered from a diligent thumbing of the 
preceding eight hundred pages. Such names as 
the index does contain are followed merely by 
indication of volume and page, or by a succession 
of such indications, with no kindly clue to the 
more exact nature of the information referred 
to. But what further could one expect from 
merely a quinquepaginal quintessence of all the 
rich variety of matter gathered together by Mr. 
Downey's industry ? Fortunately, the average 
reader — that is, the sensible reader, who reads 
for entertainment and, if it so may chance, for 
edification — is always chiefly interested in what 
precedes the index ; and in the present instance 
he will not search in vain for readable matter 
concerning this early and mid-Victorian author, 
whose popularity stUl continues. 

Percy F. Bicknell. 



Kew Theories of the Earth's History.* 

" The Critical Reviewers," says Dr. Johnson, 
*' often review without readingthe books through, 
but lay hold of a topic and write chiefly from 
their own minds. The monthly reviewers are 
duller men and are glad to read the books 
through." Without attempting to pose as of the 
brighter order, one must be c ontent in this case 

• Geology. By Thomas C. Chamberlin and Rollin D. Salis- 
bury. Volumes II. and lU., Earth History. Illustrated. New 
York: Henry Holt & Co. 



to follow the method of the critical reviewers. 
Even after reading through the 1200 pages of 
the two volumes before us, it is impossible to 
attempt any systematic review of the work. It 
will require the services of many geologists, 
working through a decade or more, properly to 
estimate and test the many startling hypotheses 
which the authors have presented. It is their 
own attempt to read the history of the earth in 
the light of principles developed in their earlier 
volume, which appeared in 1904 and is now in 
a second edition. In that volume was given a 
statement of the planetismal hypothesis of earth 
origin. In these new volumes the hypothesis is 
developed and applied, and its application re- 
quires a new reading of dynamical geology, with 
a consequent new interpretation of geologic his- 
tory. An excellent example of the difference 
appears in the interpretation of the Cambrian, 
where the great transgression of the sea is re- 
ferred to superficial rather than profound defor- 
mation, and is considered to mark a period of 
long quiescence rather than one of earth move- 
ment. Another notable feature of the work is 
the attention paid to past climates and the use 
made of them in interpretation. The explana- 
tion of glacial periods in the Permian as well as 
in the Pleistocene as the indirect residt of de- 
formation acting through changes in the consti- 
tution of the atmosphere, may be cited. The 
argument in bald outline is as follows : Defor- 
mation exposes areas of unaltered rocks and 
stimulates erosion. This leads to the carbona- 
tion of the rocks and so to a reduction in the 
amount of carbonic acid gas in the atmosphere. 
The latter, thus thinned, is unable to retain the 
heat radiated from the earth, and a period of 
low temperature results. The many fascinating 
incidental problems connected with such a hy- 
pothesis are attacked in detail, and plausible 
suggestions as to their solution are made. 

From still another point of view the books 
are notable. In 1891, when the Congres Geo- 
logique International was to meet at Washington, 
Major J. W. Powell, then Director of the 
Geological Survey, arranged for a series of cor- 
relation essays in which should be discussed 
separately the Carboniferous, Cretaceous, Eo- 
cene, and other rock systems of the United 
States. These essays were designed to reflect the 
existing state of knowledge regarding each sys- 
tem, and also to throw light upon the proper 
methods of correlation. The plan grew, and the 
reports were not finished until after the Con- 
gress adjourned; the last essay, that on the 
Archean and Algonkian by Van Hise, having 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



385 



appeared in 1892. The series as a whole was 
notable in the emphasis laid upon paleontolog}' 
as the best means of correlation , The Chamberlin- 
Salisburj- text-book is the first large and sys- 
tematic attempt to correlate the stratigraphy of 
this country that has been made since the period 
of these essays. It is interesting to observ^e that 
the authors have taken physical changes as their 
key in making correlations. Their reasons for 
doing so are statetl as follows : 

" We believe that there is a natural basis of time- 
division, that it is recorded dynamically in the pro- 
founder changes of the earth's history, and that its basis 
is world-wide in its applicability. It is expressed in 
interruptions of the course of the earth's history. It 
can hardly take accoimt of all local details, and cannot 
be applied with minuteness to all localities, since geo- 
logical history is nesessarily continuous. But even a 
continuous history has its times and seasons, and the pul- 
sations of history are the natural basis for its divisions. 

" In our view, the fundamental basis for geologic time 
divisions has its seat in the heart of the earth. When- 
ever the accumulated stresses within the body of the 
earth over-match its effective rigidity, a readjustment 
takes place. The deformative movements begin, for 
reasons previously set forth, with a depression of the bot- 
toms of the oceanic basins, by which their capacity is in- 
creased. The epicontinental waters are correspondingly 
withdra\\Ti into them. The effect of this is practically 
universal, and all continents are affected in a similar 
way and simultaneously. This is the reason why the 
classification of one continent is also applicable, in its 
larger features, to another, though the configuration of 
each individual modifies the result of the change, so far 
as that continent is concerned. The far-reaching effects 
of such a withdrawal of the sea have been indicated 
repeatedly in the preceding pages. Foremost among 
these effects is the profound influence exerted on the 
evolution of the shallow-water marine life, the most 
constant and reliable of the means of intercontinental 
correlation. Second only to this in importance is the 
influence on terrestrial life through the connections and 
disconnections that control migration. Springing from 
the same deformative movements are geographic and 
topographic changes, affecting not only the land but 
also the sea currents. These changes affect the climate 
directly, and by accelerating or retarding the chemical 
reactions between the atmosphere, hydrosphere, and 
lithosphere, affect the constitution of both sea and air, 
and thus indirectly influence the environment of life, 
and through it, its evolution. In these deformative 
movements, therefore, there seems to us to be a uni- 
versal, simultaneous, and fimdamental basis for the 
subdi^Tsion of the earth's history. It is all the more 
effective and applicable, because it controls the progress 
of life, which furnishes the most available criteria for 
its application in detail to the varied rock formations in 
all quarters of the globe." 

The use of these criteria gives M-idespread im- 
conformities large importance, and accordingly 
certain changes in nomenclature are made. The 
old Lower Silurian is reorganized as truly inde- 
pendent, as many have contended, and is called 
Ordovician. It is suggested that possibly a 



portion of the Cambrian belongs with it. The 
Mississippi, Pennsylvania, and Permian are 
given systematic rather than serial rank, so 
that the old Carboniferous disappears, unless it 
is retained as synonym for Pennsylvanian — 
the period of the coal measures. The Lower 
Cretaceous is set off by itself and called the 
Comanchean, and in the Tertiary only the 
Eocene, Xiocene, and Pliocene are recognized. 
Whether this nomenclature will prove to be final 
or will be followed by others remains to be seen. 

The treatment of the Pleistocene and the 
human or present periods is unusually fidl and 
satisfactory. The authors find no sufficient evi- 
dence as yet for accepting the presence of man 
in America during the glacial period, though 
placing the European determinations on a dif- 
ferent basis. The book closes with a very inter- 
esting and suggestive discussion of man as a 
geologic agent, and as influenced by his geo- 
logic environment. 

While the work is called a text-book, its bulk 
will probably preclude its wide use in schools. 
On the other hand, it is not sufficiently complete 
to be an entirely satisfactory book of reference. 
European and foreign geology in general is 
much less fully discussed than in the older 
manuals. For the general reader the book has 
a charm and freshness not common to scientific 
texts, but it contains so much new and not yet 
accepted doctrine that such a reader will need 
to take careful note of the qiiaUfying phrases. 
It is to working geologists that the book wiU 
make the strongest appeal ; with some maturity 
of judgment and with some store of facts to 
draw on, they will find in it a great stimvdus 
and a surprising number of fruitfid suggestions 
and hyphotheses. H. Foster Bain. 



tiORD RAXDOL-PH CHirRCHIL.!..* 



Lord Randolph Churchill was for a period of 
i six years a striking figure in English political 
I life : and if the estimate of his son be accepted, 
I he was a much mis-judged and ill-used statesman. 
I While his ability and force were universally rec- 
ognized, his consistency and statesmanship have 
been as imiversally denied ; and these latter 
qualities it has been the purpose of Mr. Winston 
Churchill, himself a notable figure in the polit- 
ical world, to claim and prove for his father. 
In this the author has largely succeeded, if one 
can concede that close relationship is consistent 

• Life of Lord Randolph Chcbchill. By his son, Winston 
Spencer Churchill, M.P. In two volumes, niostrated. New 
York : The Macmillan Co. 



386 



THE DIAL 



[June 16, 



with critical and judicial fairness in analyzing 
character and motives. Certain it is that the 
work is remarkable for its seeming freedom from 
personal bias, for its frankness, for its remote- 
ness even, as well as for its attractive stjde, and 
in truth for all those qualities that stamp the 
really great biogi*aphy. 

Lord Randolph Churchill entered Parliament 
with disinclination, or at least with apathy, yield- 
ing to the insistence of his family that he repre- 
sent a constituency wholly at their disposal. He 
was a Tory by traditional instinct, but his emer- 
gence from obscurity came through indirect 
opposition to what he considered the inefficient 
leadership of his party in the House of Com- 
mons. Together with three other dissatisfied 
Tories, Arthur Balfour, Sir Henry WolfP, and 
Mr. Gorst, he assumed an attitude of inde- 
pendence of party control based originally not so 
much upon dislike of party principles as upon 
the weakness of the Tory opposition to Mr. Glad- 
stone's government. These four men formed a 
«lose alliance that soon came to be known as the 
*' Fourth Party," so called at first in derision, 
but later recognized as a distmct power. The 
alliance, as the author frankly admits, was 
formed, in part, to further the political interests 
of the men who composed it, and membership 
in it required first of all that the men shoidd 
defend each other. In fact, the conservative and 
acquiescent opposition to Gladstone practised 
by Sir Stafford Northcote was irksome to the 
members of the " Fourth Party " who believed 
in fighting, and who had instincts and abilities 
for rough political warfare. Thus, nominally 
breaking loose from party control, they became 
very rapidly unauthorized leaders of the fighting 
element of the Tory party, and were thorns in 
the flesh of Gladstone and Northcote alike. 

Churchill's ability in political opposition has 
never been denied, nor his shrewdness in find- 
ing the weak spot in his opponent's armor. 
He had also an unusual gift for hard-hitting 
speeches, and for a sarcasm that delighted his 
audiences, whether in Parliament or country, 
as audiences are always delighted with clever 
personal attacks. Moreover, his style of ora- 
tory, while it woidd have attracted less attention 
from an Irish Nationalist or from a Radical, 
aroused interest and amused, simply because it 
came from the mouth of a Tory who by birth and 
breeding might have been expected to follow the 
customary dignified type of Tory eloquence. In 
1884, in a speech at Blackpool, he referred to 
Gladstone in a way that at first astomided, then 
delighted his Tory audience. 



" ' Vanity of vanities,' says the preacher, ' all is 
vanity.' ' Humbug of humbugs,' says the radical, ' all 
is humbug.' Gentlemen, we live in an age of advertise- 
ment, the age of HoUoway's pills, of Colman's mustard, 
and of Horniman's pure tea; and the policy of lavish 
advertisement has been so successful in commerce that 
the Liberal party, with its usual entei-prise, has adapted 
it to politics. The Prime Minister is the greatest li\'ing 
master of the art of personal political advertisement. 
. . . For the purposes of recreation he has selected the 
felling of trees; and we may usefully remark that his 
amusements, like his politics, are essentially destructive. 
Every afternoon the whole world is invited to assist at 
the crashing fall of some beech or elm or oak. The 
forest laments, in order that Mr. Gladstone may per- 
spire, and full accounts of these proceedings are for- 
warded by special correspondents to every daily paper 
every recurring morning." 

Later, describing Mr. Gladstone's methotl of re- 
ceiving a dejmtation at Ha warden Castle, he said : 
" It has always appeared to me somewhat incongruous 
and inappropriate that the great chief of the Radical 
party should live in a castle. But to proceed. One 
would have thought that the deputation would have 
been received in the house, in the study, in the drawing- 
room, or even in the dining-room. Not at all. Tliat 
would have been out of harmony with the advertisement 
'boom.' Another scene had been arranged. The work- 
ingmen were guided through the ornamental grounds, 
into the wide-spreading park, strewn with the wreckage 
and ruins of the Prime Minister's sport. All around 
them, we may suppose, lay the rotting trimks of once 
umbrageous trees; all around them, tossed by the winds, 
were boughs and bark and withered shoots. They come 
suddenly on the Prime Minister and Master Herbert, 
in scanty attire and profuse perspiration, engaged in the 
destruction of a gigantic oak, just giving its last dying 
groan. They are permitted to gaze and to worsliip and 
adore, and, having conducted themselves with exemplary 
propriety, are each presented with a few chips as a 
memorial of that memorable scene." 

In the House of Conunons also he was equally 
effective, though more parliamentary, in sarcasm ; 
while, on the other hand, his straightforward 
clearly-expressed arguments often gave the To- 
ries those party catch-words and raUyuig cries 
of which the most famous is undoubtedly that 
drawn forth by the Home Rule bill of 1886, 
when he prophesied rebellion in Protestant Ulster 
with the words, " Ulster will fight ; and Ulster 
will be right." 

Churchill and his three associates soon as- 
sumed an importance wholly out of proportion 
to their numbers. As their power increased 
their irritation at Northcote's feeble leadership 
became more pronounced. Disraeli alone of the 
older Tories understood and liked them, but he 
had practically withdrawn from political life. 
Yet he intervened to save them to the Tories, 
teUing Wolff : 

" I fully appreciate your feelings and those of your 
friends; but you must stick to Northcote. He repre- 
sents the respectability of the party. I wholly sympa- 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



387 



thise with you all, because I never was respectable 
myself. In my time the respectability of the party was 
represented by ... a horrid man; but I had to do as 
well as I could; you must do the same." 

But when Disraeli died, in 1881, the only 
chance, according to Mr. Winston Churchill, of 
a permanent and effective alliance between the 
old and new element in the Tory party was lost. 
The author says of Disraeli : 

" He was an old man lifted high above his contempo- 
raries, and he liked to look past them to the new gene- 
ration and to feel that he could gain the sympathy and 
confidence of yoxmger men. If he liked jouth, he liked 
Tory Democracy even more. He had, moreover, good 
reason to know how a Parliamentary Opposition shoidd 
be conducted. He saw with perfect clearness the inca- 
pacity above the gangway, and the enterprise and pluck 
below it. Had his life been prolonged a few more years 
the Fourth Party might have marched, as his Young 
Guard, by a smoother road, and this story might have 
reached a less melancholy conclusion. He was removed 
from the petty vexations of the House of Commons. 
Surely he would not have allowed these clever ardent 
men to drift into antagonism against the mass of the 
Conservative party and into fierce feud with its leaders. 
He alone could have kept their loyalty, as he alone com- 
manded their respect ; and never would he have counte- 
nanced the solemn excommunication by dullness and 
prejudice of all that preserved the sparkling life of 
Torj'ism in times of depression and defeat. But Lord 
Beaconsfield was gone ; and those whom he left behind 
him had other views of how his inheritance — such as it 
was — should be divided." 

Yet the break did not come until years later, and 
then was in reality a break that involved Churchill 
alone; for the other members of the Fourth 
Party, and in particular Balfour, had fallen 
into more '• regular '' lines of jjolitical conduct. 
It was, in fact, liy remaining independent that 
Churchni became, earlier than any of his former 
associates, a power in his pai*ty. He had shown 
courage, fighting qualities of the highest order, 
and originality, and now as a campaign drew 
near he developed unexpecte<l strength in polit- 
ical manipulation. He, more than any other, 
organized the partj' machinery that was to over- 
throw the Gladstone administration in 1885, 
and forcetl upon his party new ideas of Tory 
Democracy and of service to the j)eople of En- 
gland. It was a strange and unwelcome plat- 
form for his party, but its effectiveness was 
recognized and it was perforce accepted. But 
the agility shown by Churchill in preWous polit- 
ical opposition made even the members of his 
o\^Ti part)- doubt the sincerity of his constructive 
principles ; and when in 1886, as Chancellor 
of the Exchequer, he insisted that platform 
principles should be earned into effect, he was 
regarded as merely fighting for personal prestige 
in the Cabinet and was suddenlv thrown over- 



board by the Salisbury government. His brief 
term of office had shown brilliant qualities as 
leader of the House of Commons. His biog- 
rapher says of the position Churchill had won : 
" It is a pity not to end the story here. Lord Ran- 
dolph Churchill seems at this time to have been sepa- 
rated only by a single step from a career of dazzling 
prosperity and fame. With a swiftness which in modem 
Parliamentar}- history had been excelled only by the 
younger Pitt, he had risen by no man's leave or monarch's 
favor from the station of a private gentleman to almost 
the first position \mder the Crown. . . . Who coidd 
have guessed that ruin, utter and irretrievable, was mar- 
ching swiftly upon this triumphant figure ; that the great 
party who had followed his lead so blithely woidd in a 
few brief months turn upon him in abiding displeasure ; 
and that the Parliament which had assembled to find him 
so powerfid and to accept his guidance would watch him 
creep away in sadness and alone?" 

The entire controversy in regard to the char- 
acter of Lord Randolph Churchill really centres 
about this resignation, — a resignation that came 
nominally on a controversy with the War Office 
caused by Churchill's demand for a reduction 
of expenses. But the author thinks that the 
break was inevitable, — that it was a contro- 
versy between a young, enthusiastic Tory Demo- 
crat and an old-fashioned Conservative statesman 
— Salisbury. " They represented," he says, 
" conflicting schools of political philosophy. They 
stood for ideas mutually incompatible. Sooner 
or later the breach must have come ; and no 
doubt the strong realization of this imderlay the 
action of the one and the acquiesence of the 
other." Lord Randolph Churchill " looked upon 
the action as the most exalted of his life, and as 
an event of which, whatever the residts to him- 
self, he might be justly proud. . . . Among aU 
these indications of the healthy and generous 
conditions of English public life, so fuU of 
honour to our race and of vindication for its 
institutions, the resignation of Lord Randolph 
Churchill need not suffer by any imijortant 
comparison." Yet " a more patient man would 
have waited." 

On the other hand, the general conception of 
the situation, both then and later, was that the 
controversy reaUy centred about a struggle for 
power within the Cabinet ; that Churchill, unduly 
exalted by his rapid rise, overestimated his im- 
portance, and was cast aside as a disturbing 
element ; that he was even ambitious of idti- 
mately displacing Salisbury and himseK ]>ecom- 
ing the leader of the Tory party, and that there 
was little but personal ambition in his action. 
From such a condenmatory estimate his son 
rescues him, and with con\'iction to the reader. 
But that Churchill was so wholly devoted to 



388 



THE DIAL 



[June 16^ 



principle, so little moved by personal ambition, 
as the author would have us believe, is difficult 
of realization. Churchill had risen by his fight- 
ing qualities, but he ceased to fight ; he disap- 
pointed the very element in his party that he 
had created and that had made his principles 
seem possible of realization. If he resigned on 
principle he should have fought for principle, 
but he seems rather to have meekly acquiesced 
in his hvuniliation, and to have sought by sub- 
serviency to regain a place in the councils of his 
party. This is not the author's estimate, but 
his analysis does not successfidly overthrow all 
elements of the older opinion. Churchill ex- 
pected to regain quickly his former importance, 
but he had been too original, too impetuous, too 
dangerous for the Tory leaders, and while wel- 
comed as an ally in times of political danger he 
was never again in close touch with his party. 
His bitterness and discontent at the sudden 
close of a brilliant career were extreme and 
coidd not be veiled in so violent a nature. By 
1891 he had practically given up hope of re- 
gaining place, as the lines from Dryden copied 
out in his own hand give evidence : 

" Happy the man, and happy he alone, 

He who can call to-day his own — 

He who, secure within, can say: 
* To-morrow do thy worst, for I have lived to-day. 

Come fair or foul, or rain, or shine. 

The joys I have possessed, in spite of fate, are mine. 

Not Heaven itself over the past hath power; 

But what has been has been, and I have had my hour.' " 

It would be imjust to Mr. Winston Churchill 
to conclude this review without noting that his 
work is not only a masterly biography, a book 
in a thousand, but is also an intimate critical 
history of Tory politics and factions from 1880 
to 1886. It has, then, both biographical im- 
portance and historical value, for it gives us 
a clearer insight into the workings of Tory 
machinery than any other volume. Also, it 
indirectly presents new and striking character- 
izations of the men with whom Churchill was 
in contact, — Salisbury, Gladstone, Balfour, 
Chamberlain, and a score of others, many of 
them important in present-day English politics. 
And from the many apt quotations used by the 
author in his chapter-headings, that taken from 
Carlyle on Mirabeau seems best to describe Lord 
Randolph Churchill's personality : 

"This is no man of system, then; he is only a man 
of instincts and insights. A man, nevertheless, who 
will glare fiercely on any object, and see through it, 
and conquer it; for he has intellect, he has will, force 
beyond other men. A man not with logic-spectacles; 
but with an eye ! " 

E. D. Adams. 



IjIfe-Saving as a Military Science.* 



Surgeon-Major Seaman is a person very dis- 
agreeable in the eyes of gentlemen who ought 
to wear red tape, instead of stars, on their 
shoulder-straps. He actually preaches the doc- 
trine that the saver of health and life and the 
preventer of disease and death should have not 
only equal honor but even equal power with 
the fighter and the killer. Of course, the 
bronze effigies in Washington and the graveyard- 
statutary in our average covmty town and vil- 
lage are against such a notion. Probably for a 
long time Dr. Seaman will be a voice crying in 
the wilderness. The tenacity of naval and 
military orthodoxy is something which, in its 
toughness and resisting power, is quite equal 
to anything in the theological department of 
human affairs. Yet, as old texts are re-read 
in spite of Pope or Synod, so doubtless in time 
we shall read aright his prophecy which shall 
have become narrative. Let us hope that 
before the end of the twentieth century our chil- 
dren will reatl, and see the ftilfilment our author 
demands. A familiar passage might be thus 
transposed : 
" A voice crying : — 
In the wilderness, prepare a highway for our God." 

Certainly, as compared with Japanese reality,, 
the medical part of our army organization is a 
desert. God's highway for humanity is with 
the Japanese rather than with us. 

Dr. Seaman's work of reform is a difficult one,, 
for time wiU be needed to convert the gentlemen 
in America fresh from the bogs of Ireland or 
the heaths of Germany, or even the olive-tinted 
sons of the land of Raphael, as well as the 
authorities at headquarters, from the dogma that 
the Japanese are heathen and uncivilized. Yet 
this book is as a hammer-blow against American 
stupidity, and against that parochial narrow- 
mindedness which, persisting in a great nation, 
like ours, is the wonder of students of that East 
from which the fundamentals of our civilization 
have been gained — that East from which light 
always arises. 

Briefly speaking, this book, written by a 
man who has had experience in our own army 
in the war with Spain, in the West Indies, the 
Philippines, China, and Manchmia, puts on 
record Japan's real triumph in the conquest of 
" the silent foe." He does this in a brilliant, 
rapid, and readable way, with convincing argu- 
ments and figures, and in the English Ian- 

• Thb Bbal Triumph of Japan. By Louis L. Seaman, 
niustrated. New York : D. Appleton & Co. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



389 



guage. The Japanese have reversed the record 
of the ages. Centuries of the records of hiunan 
slaughter show that four men die of disease in 
camp or field to one death at the hands of the 
enemy. But in the Japanese war with Russia 
there were four deaths from bullets to one from 
disease. Of a total mortality, from all causes, 
of 64,938. there were 40,954 moi-e from " casual- 
ties " than from disease. Dr. Seaman gives his 
figures and comparisons, and tells most interest- 
ingly of his %'isits to hospitals, his experiences on 
the march, on shipboard, the railways, and on 
the field. He also shows how, after Port Arthur 
had been won by astounding heroism and scien- 
tific gunnery, the Japanese gave the place such 
a cleaning-up that '• the demon of Pestilence was 
foUed, after the fiend of War had been anni- 
hilated." Then, — lest we forget, and Congress 
go to sleep, — he gives us a chapter with the 
familiar title from Kipling, and recalls disagree- 
able memories. He proves that our government 
ration itself creates disease, while our organized 
incompetence cooperates with the silent foe in 
killing eighty per cent of our soldiers. 

Briefly put, the burden of this prophet is that 
'• the [ American] medical officer can make a 
recommendation, but never issue an order. . . . 
Therein lies the secret of the failure of the 
[American] medical department." The deaths 
in the Spanish- American war from preventable 
diseases were fourteen times as great as those 
from "casualties'" received in the conflict. Dr. 
Seaman's effort is to prevent disease rather than 
cure it, and with a thousand proofs and con- 
vincing argxunents he calls the attention of the 
world to the fact that the Japanese have at last 
put the horse before the cart. 

Of course, when the shoemaker leaves his last 
or the prophet his message, his judgments are 
not so convincing. When the doctor tells in 
Chapter XI. " the history of medical science in 
Japan," one is not to take his text too seriously. 
The Japanese have certainly taken him in when 
they tell him, or anybody else, about what hap- 
pened before the sixth century — the "records" 
of which were made almost entirely a thousand 
years after the time alleged. The Japanese will 
never succeed in silencing the almost universal 
suspicion concerning their integrity or good faith, 
vmtil they tell the truth officially about their 
early history, and treat with respect even mod- 
em facts which rub their conceit hard. Japanese 
history before the fourth century can be con- 
structed only out of mythology', fossils, and tribal 
legends. Only when the truth-loving critic in 
Japan is as welcome as the flatterer, will the 



clouds hanging over Japanese character, as co»- 
cems truth and honesty, roU away. Even when 
we come to modem times, there are those living 
(including the present reviewer) who attended 
the opening of the first government hospital in 
Japan, when a hospital open to the public — 
or dispensaries, as we understand them — had 
no existence. All Japanese official history scru- 
pulously ignores what American missionaries 
have done. It was James Curtis Hepburn, M. D., 
who, early in the sixties, opened the first dis- 
pensary in Japan. It was Guido F. Verbeck 
who recommended that medical education and 
training should be conducted in the Grerman 
language. It was Dr. J. C. Berry who first be- 
gan the training of women nurses. It can be 
• said, with strict historical truth, that the plan 
and idea of the modem Japanese national army 
whose soldiers are trained first in the public 
schools, originated in the parlor of Dr. Verbeck 
ID the autiunn of 1870. No history, or even 
a glance at histon,-. can leave out the work of 
the Dutch medical training, with dissection, at 
I Nagasaki ; nor ignore the labors of such men as- 
' the daimio of Echizen and Dr. Hajimoto. In- 
deed, the Japanese mind was kept fertilized by 
liie Dutch during two centuries, and their work 
in opening the coimtry was most discreditably 
ignored by Commodore Perry. Dr. Seaman's 
view of later developments, however, especially 
since 1882, is excellent. 

The American patriot, the soldier in the ranks 
and his relative at home, as well as the book- 
critic, can gladly commend this well-written 
work and be thankful for it. It is a trumpet-blast 
of prophecy. Willloi Elliot Griffis. 



A Philosophical Radical ox the 
Greek Tragic Stage.* 



In a less conservative journal, a more enter- 
prising reviewer might have headed this notice 
"A Greek Bernard Shaw," or "Ibsen in Athens," 
or something else equally alluring. Moreover, 
he coidd have justified his caption by merely 
quoting passages from the work of Professor 
Decharme and leaving the reader to decide 
whether they were more pertinent to Euripides 
than to whichever of these two modem radicals 
he selected for comparison. It certainly does not 
require many passages like the following to recall 
Bernard Shaw with almost painful vividness : 

• Euripides axd tbce Spirit op his Dramas. Translated 
from the French of Paul Decharme, by James Loeb, A.B. New 
York : The Macmillan Co. 



390 



THE DIAL 



[June 16, 



" In common with them [the Sophists] , he had the spirit 
of iuquiry which penetrates prevailing prejudices and 
conventional ideas, the skeptical aiidacity which shakes 
beliefs to their very foundations. . . . Euripides was 
not one of those who submit to public opmiou, or flatter 
it; but of those who oppose and guide it. He guided 
it much too far, to the thinking of Athenian conserva- 
tives. . . . Our poet was a philosopher whom philoso- 
phy had so enthralled that he could never escape from 
it. . . . The critical spirit in Euripides is often nothing 
less than the philosophical spirit, which disguises itself 
so little in his dramas that certain Greek critics could 
say of him that he was the philosopher of the stage. 
. . . His philosophy was prejudicial to his genius as an 
artist. . . . One of the secondary reasons for Euripides' 
success with posterity constituted a real defect in his 
dramas, — that critical spirit, everywhere manifest, 
which spares the gods no more than it spares mankind, 
which deals with the ancient stories as it deals with con- 
tenaporary morals, which attacks accepted ideas, social 
conventions and all forms of tradition. . . . Evil, which 
has succeeded in creating a considerable place for itself 
in the world, no doubt seemed to him to deserve at least 
a small place on the stage, the world in miniature ; for, 
side by side with the beautiful, he now and then exhib- 
ited the ugly, putting immoral women on the stage." 

When our hypothetical reviewer passed to 
consider the attitude of our dramatists to women, 
he could fill a volimie with significant parallels. 
^' It was above all the women who had ground 
for complaint against Euripides." Women, al- 
ready becoming emancipated, " meant to oblige 
men to reckon with them," and Euripides as a 
result of his reckoning " expresses views about 
women which are often of extreme severity ; — 
he said little of them that is good, and a gi*eat 
deal that is bad." At the same time, Euripides 
had Shaw's perception, which recognizes tre- 
mendous cleverness in women, although he em- 
phasizes the devotion of that cleverness to CA-il 
ends. The general attitude of Euripides to 
the sex, and of the sex to Euripides, is grimly 
implied in the tradition that he was done to 
death by vengeful women ; and at times one 
would shudder for the fate of his modern incar- 
nation, were it not that in these days we have 
substituted the figurative tearing of limb from 
limb in our reviews and women's clubs. Fur- 
thermore, the reviewer could propose that the 
occasional interruption of a play of Euripides 
by a scandalized audience corresponds to the 
interference with Shaw's plays by the police, rep- 
resenting a scandalized public ; he could com- 
pare Euripides' debt to Socrates and Anaxagoras 
with Shaw's debt to Nietzsche ; he could point 
out that Euripides deliberately entered into 
competition with JEschylus, even as Shaw chal- 
lenges comparison with Shakespeare ; he could 
suggest that the thousand critical shafts so 
zealously winged at Shaw by our critics of to-day 



correspond to the terrible club wielded by the 
titanic Aristoplianes against his contemporary ; 
in short, he could call attention to feature after 
feature until the resemblance should become so 
unendurably significant that every sensible 
reader not familiar with Euripides and his times 
would cry out that it must be all nonsense. At 
any rate, even the adumbration we have given 
must suggest that the complete picture woidd 
show Euripides as a strangely modern figure, a 
critical and philosophical radical representing 
the new cosmopolitanism and religiously engaged 
in the sacrilegious task of tearing up ancient 
boundary stones in every field of life. If to this 
conception we were to add the thought that he 
was a brilliant poet and dramatic artist, with 
not a few points of weakness, who had a remark- 
able influence upon his contemporaries and pos- 
terity, we should not be further from the truth 
than many who have struggled more painfully 
for accuracy. 

Some twenty-five hundred years ago, an old- 
fashioned Athenian named Strepsiades, with 
before-the-war ideas, came to blows with his 
son, a freshman from the school of Socra- 
tes, over a contemporary poet ; and ever since 
the Periclean age, the great household of those 
interested in letters has been divided against 
itself on the subject of Euripides. On the 
whole, the figurative quarrel has been more 
favorable to the old conservative than was 
the physical eneoimter in the " Clouds " of 
Aristophanes ; but not a few great men, in- 
cluding many of our greatest poets, have sided 
with the son in his admiration of this tragedian 
of the dawning cosmopolitanism, who repre- 
sented the spirit of his times, who painted men 
as they were, who had tears for sorrow, and 
withal could give to his shifting moods such 
adequate expression with the aid of effective 
dramatic music and polished verse. In Eu- 
ripides the philosophical radical and the S}^npa- 
thetic poet found a meeting-place, and such a 
meeting-place inevitably becomes a field of com- 
bat for later critics. 

Some thirteen years ago. Professor Paul 
Decharme, the talented Professor of Greek 
Poetry in the Faculte des Lettres of Paris, 
came to occupy the most prominent place in 
the conti'oversy, with a considerable volume on 
" Euripide et I'esprit de son theatre." The book 
at once attracted favorable conunent wherever 
read, and the German reviewers contributed 
the well-deserved epithets of " eingehend " and 
"geistreich "; that it aroused much discussion, 
was only another tribute to its worth. Obvi- 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



391 



ously, for any detailed criticism these columns 
must refer the reader to the more technical jour- 
nals : but the most controversial re\'iewer was 
bound to give a generally favorable verdict, and 
it is safely conservative to say that anybody 
interested in the drama must read this book as a 
duty, and will be glad to re-read many chapters 
thereof as a pleasure. The second part, pages 
145-378 of the English edition, dealing with 
*' Dramatic Art in Euripides," is not so attrac- 
tive to the less technical reader as the first part, 
which treats of the poet's views on social, polit- 
ical, and philosohical questions ; but from the 
whole book one rises vnth the verdict that the 
rather ambitious title has been fidly justified. 
It was a labor of love on the part of Professor 
Decharme, whose work has since been ended by 
a death which the worid of letters has sincerely 
deplored. Many of us who knew him only 
thi*ough his writings will recall these words from 
the Y>oet whom he served so well : 
" A wise man, though in earth's remotest parts 
He dwell, though ne'er I see him, — count I my friend." 

The volume before us is an English transla- 
tion by James Loeb, A.B., for whom Professor 
John Williams White of Harvard \^Tites a very 
strongly pro-Euripidean introduction containing 
a brief appreciation of that author's influence 
on later poets. Touching the need of a transla- 
tion, the present reviewer is by no means clear, 
inasmuch as most readers who are deeply enough 
interested in Euripides to pursue the spirit of 
his dramas through three himdred and seventj- 
eight generous pages wovdd probably be able to 
read the French original. On this point, how- 
ever, publishers and librarians are doubtless the 
best judges, so that we may content ourselves 
with answering the question whether the work 
has been well done ; and oiu* answer must be in 
the affirmative. To demand that the English 
version should breathe the charm of the French 
original, would be extravagant ; but a detailed 
comparison of a number of passages inspired 
confidence in the trustworthiness of our trans- 
lator, even if it did give rise to some differences 
of opinion. That the idea of securing Mr. 
Arthur S. Way's metrical renderings from the 
Greek was most happy, is shown by their con- 
tribution to the attractiveness of the work. The 
value of the analytical index can be passed upon 
with finality only after continued handling ; but 
an examination of selected points left an impres- 
sion of reliability. The book is bound in the well- 
known dark-blue that is always prepossessing to 
many readers, among them the present writer. 
The typography is good, the illustrations few 



and pertinent. K the original Parisian edition 
had been consulted, it could not have demanded 
a more appropriate garb for its presentation to 
an English-speaking public. 

F. B. R. Hellems. 



Breefs on :New Books. 



Thoughtful While admitting the impossibility of 

pretent^nd* ' predicting the future from a study of 
future. the past, Mr. C. F. G. Masterman, 

in the title-essay of his volume, " In Peril of Change " 
(Huebsch), points out three of England's institu- 
tions — " the Landed System, the Established Church, 
and the Popular Religion " — that are seemingly on 
the verge of transformation, with more or less of 
menace to the country from the change. Indeed, 
the author finds in England's present condition some 
of the sjonptoms manifest in the Roman Empire 
before its decline and faU, and in France before the 
Revolution. Balance has become unstable, and, says 
Mr. Masterman, "the study of the past can but 
guarantee that through rough courses or smooth, 
heedless of violence and pain, in methods imexpected 
and often through hazardous ways, equilibrium will 
be attained." These essays, in large part reprinted 
from leading magazines and reviews, have a char- 
acter so positive and individual as to raise them 
above the common level. Their author, a Cambridge 
graduate of but ten years' standing, and at present 
a fellow of Christ's College in that university, pre- 
faces his chapters by explaining that "some are 
attempts to examine the ideals of the age immedi- 
ately past. . . . Some deal with the life of the 
present . . . And some are concerned with the 
future, seeking to interpret, in literature, in religion, 
in social ideals, those obscure beginnings which are 
to direct the progress of the years to come." In the 
opening essay, "After the Reaction," the author's 
dispraise of Mr. Kipling and the brazen-throated 
poets of war and world-empire, his lament over " the 
pitiful destruction of two free nations in South 
Africa," and his advocacy of a return to the larger 
and kindlier humanities and sj-mpathies, will endear 
him to many readers ; as will also, in another part 
of the book, his outspoken contempt for "the alltu*- 
ing claptrap concerning the White Man's Burden 
and the Trustees of Progress." Some of the best 
of these twentj' chapters treat of Mr. Chesterton 
and " the blasphemy of optimism," Chicago and St. 
Francis of A^sisi, Gissing. Henlej', Spencer and 
Carlyle, Disraeli and Gladstone, the making of the 
Superman, and the burden of London. But in read- 
ing the signs of the times he now and then seems at 
fault, as when he declares that the present abhor- 
rence of any violation of the monogamic order of 
society belongs to a vanishing England. Disclaim- 
ing pretensions to excellences of style, he has never- 
theless said forcibly and well what he was moved to 
say. A little more attention to the accuracies of 



392 



THE DIAL 



[June 16, 



speech would have prevented his making George 
Gissing analyze " into its constituent atoms the ma- 
trix of which is composed the characteristic city 
population." Easily, too, could he have corrected 
the pleonasm in Herbert Spencer's "long struggle 
for persistence against poverty." A university man, 
even if not a first-class in classics, should think twice 
before writing " negligeable "; such second thought 
would recall that the word follows the analogy of 
intelligible, legible, corrigible, derigible, erigible, 
and countless other adjectives of potentiality from 
third-conjugation Latin verbs. This author, one may 
predict, will be heard from again, and more than once. 

The Jew in "^^^ Jews in the South have made a 

Southern life remarkable record, and in his " Jews 
and society. ^f South Carolina " ( Lippincott) Dr. 
Barnett A. Elzas of Charleston has given a full 
account of his people in that State. The author's 
aim has been to show the part taken by the Jew in 
commercial, professional, political, and social activi- 
ties ; and the showing is a very favorable one. The 
volume includes chapters on the beginnings of the 
Jewish settlements in the colony, their religious 
organization and religious dissensions, the part taken 
by Jews in the wars and in the affairs of govern- 
ment, the expansion of the Jews over the State, and 
short biographies of the most prominent members of 
the race. The first Jewish congregation of Charles- 
ton was an offshoot of the Spanish-Portuguese com- 
munity of Bevis Marks, London. In South Carolina, 
then not friendly to slavery but desirous of obtaining 
a white population, the Jews were welcomed. The 
author declares that "in South Carolina, from the 
day of his settlement the Jew has never labored 
under the slightest civil or religious disability what- 
ever. In this respect South Carolina was unique 
among the British provinces. It took the Jews of 
England over one hundred and fifty years to win by 
steady fighting, step by step, the civil and religious 
equality that was guaranteed to the first Jew that 
set foot on South Carolina soil." And it is a notable 
fact that the newer States to the west and south of 
South Carolina have been influenced by the former's 
example. In the Lower South, the Jews have at all 
times exercised an influence out of proportion to 
their numbers. Perhaps it was one of the results of 
slavery which united aU whites, but at any rate the 
Jews have from the beginning formed a respected 
portion of the population, and have mingled socially 
with Gentiles to a greater extent than elsewhere. 
This is partly a cause and partly a result of the supe- 
riority of the Southern Jews. In South Carolina, Dr. 
Elzas declares, was to be found, before 1825 at least, 
the best Jewish population in America; and cer- 
tainly the Southern Jew has not yet been surpassed. 
Many of the Jewish leaders of other sections have 
come from the South. The Jew is usually considered 
a man of peace, but the record in South Carolina 
tells a different story. In every war the Jews fur- 
nished more than their share of men. " South Caro- 
lina can boast of no more loyal and devoted sons and 



daughters than were the Jewish citizens in the hour 
of her need." For material on which to base his 
account, Dr. Elzas has searched all the records of 
the State, printed and in manuscript, as well as Jew- 
ish records in other States, leaving no source of 
information unexamined. The bibliography ap- 
pended " is not complete," he says ; but it is not 
likely to be completed. As an instance of his in- 
dustry, we may mention that to get the names of 
the Jewish soldiers in the Civil War he went over 
" several times " the lists of 70,000 names in the 
archives at Columbia, and examined the complete 
file of Gazettes in the Charleston Library. The gen- 
eral reader will object to the padding with long lists 
of names taken from directories, and to the numer- 
ous extracts from newspapers ; but to one who is 
directly interested, and to the future historian, these 
sources of information are valuable. The " general 
reader " can do some judicious skipping. It would 
have been well had the author explained more fully 
the distinctions, historically and socially, which he 
hints at, between the German Jews and the Spanish- 
Portuguese Jews of South Carolina. But in spite of 
minor defects, the work has a great value as an 
account of one of the influential elements in Southern 
society. 

On the nature ^ince the publication of the fundar 
and oriijin of mental researches of Pasteur in 
livinv matter. France and Tyndall in England on 
the spontaneous generation of living from non-living 
matter, it has been considered as one of the most 
firmly grounded generalizations of biology that, 
under the conditions which now obtain upon the 
earth, living things only originate by th^ multipli- 
cation of preceding — that is, ancestral — organisms 
of the same kind. Omne vivum ex vivo is almost 
the first law which the biological tyro learns. But as 
old as the history of all science is the " paradoxer," 
the " lone and lorn " individual who with all his 
might combats the conclusions which other and 
intellectually more ordinary persons consider to be 
demonstrated. The geniuses of this kind who in 
older times settled the most pressing mathematical 
and physical problems of the universe have an 
enduring monument to recall them to memory in 
Augustus De Morgan's delightful " Budget of Par- 
adoxes," — to the literary and scientific charm of 
which Holmes has paid tribute. Unfortunately, the 
biological paradoxers have had no De Morgan to do 
them justice, and in consequence one fears that Dr. 
H. Charlton Bastian's life-long effort to upset the 
accepted teachings of biology will too soon be forgot- 
ten. For more than thirty-five years he has been ex- 
perimenting and publishing books and memoirs for 
the purpose of establishing two fundamental theses. 
The first of these is that at the present time living 
organisms are everywhere originating as a result of 
a process of " archebiosis," by which less vulgar 
term our author designates what ordinarily goes by 
the name of spontaneous generation. Especially is 
Dr. Bastian convinced that bacteria originate in this 



1906.] 



THE DIAL. 



393 



way. His second thesis is that the substance of 
many of the higher organisms is frequently changed 
by some unknown process into altogether different 
organisms. Thus, the living substance of a plant 
may be directly transformed into a number of 
simple animals, and so on. This phenomenon is 
called " heterogenesis." Something over half of 
Dr. Bastian's bulky volume on "The Nature and 
Origin of Living Matter " (Lippincott) is devoted to 
an account, with illustrations, of experiments which 
the author believes have demonstrated the truth 
of " archebiosis " and " heterogenesis." It is safe 
to say that of those who possess sufficient technical 
knowledge of biology to really g^asp the nature and 
meaning of these experiments, the number who will 
agree with Dr. Bastian in his conclusions is "ran- 
ishingly small." The observations and experiments 
are absolutely inconclusive. The earlier chapters 
of the work are given to an extended exposition of 
the author's views on the general subject of organic 
evolution. They add nothing essentially new, either 
in fact or in principle, to what has already been said 
on the subject. 

Messrs. E. P. Dutton & Co. are the 
^s^^nesTfon' American publishers of " Everyman's 

Library," edited by Mr. Ernest 
Rhys. This library is one of the Dent enterprises, 
which is equivalent to saying that the volumes ex- 
hibit a delicate taste in typography, binding, and 
other mechanical matters, and give a large return of 
value for the small price set upon them. As we 
look over the fifty volumes now before us, with which 
the enterprise is inaugurated, we cannot help think- 
ing that the problem of good reading at moderate 
cost is by way of being solved more satisfactorily 
than ever before in a similar undertaking. The 
name of the library is itself a happy thought, and 
nothing could be more apt than the quotation from 
the old morality that is put into the decorative 
service of the series : " I will go with thee to be thy 
guide, in thy most need to go by thy side." The fifty 
volumes now published are classified under several 
heads. In fiction, we have a five-volume set of Jane 
Austen, Bulwer's " Harold " and *' The Last of the 
Barons," Reade's "The Cloister and the Hearth," 
Kingsley's " Westward Ho ! " and a number of other 
representative single works by various writers. In 
what may be called quasi-fiction, we have children's 
tales by Lamb, Hawthorne, and Andersen, besides 
a two-volume set of "Le Morte d' Arthur." Of 
poetry, there are Tennyson, Browning, and Coleridge 
volumes. In the cases of the former two, the poems 
are given down to 1863, which marks the term of 
expired copyrights. History is represented by Ma- 
caulay's "England" in three volumes, Carlyle's 
^' French Revolution " in two, and Finlay's " By- 
zantine Empire " in one. In biography, there are 
Boswell and Lockhart's Napoleon. There are vol- 
umes of essays by Bacon, Lamb, Emerson, Coleridge, 
and Froude. Science is represented by White's 
*' Selborne," and Huxley's " Man's Place in Nature." 



Three volumes of Robertson's sermons and one of 
Latimer's contribute the religious element. Speke's 
" Nile " and Borrow's " Wild Wales " occupy the 
travel section, and a volume of Marcus Aurelius 
completes the list with a classical offering. Many 
of these volumes are provided with really notable 
introductions, of which a few instances may be given. 
Mr. Watts-Dimton stands sponsor for Borrow, Mr. 
Belloc for Carlyle, Mr. Arthur Waugh for Brown- 
ing, Mr. R. Brimley Johnson for the Jane Austen 
novels, Mr. Swinburne for " The Cloister and the 
Hearth," and Mr. Stopford Brooke for " The Golden 
Book of Coleridge." These introductions, in several 
cases quite lengthy, add materially to the interest 
and value of the volumes which they accompany. 



Tales of 
the old 
Southwest 
border. 



Under the attractive title " The 
Glory Seekers" (A. C. McClurg & 
Co.), Mr. WUliam Horace Brown 
has collected a number of tales of the Southwest, in 
that romantic border-land between American and 
Spanish domain. Since American authority did 
not always advance as rapidly as Spanish control 
retreated, the resulting " no man's land " attracted 
plotters, pirates, fillibusters, and soldiers of fortune, 
who found there an inviting situation. The book, 
which attempts to recall their deeds and moving 
accidents, is not a novel ; neither is it history. It is 
a re-writing of actual facts, and a reincarnation of 
former personages, amplified by stirring description. 
Among the seekers for glory one finds the despicable 
General Wilkinson, the fascinating Aaron Burr, 
Phillip Nolan, and Ellis Bean, Zebulon Pike the 
explorer, the Kemper boys, Lafitte the pirate, and 
persistent Jennie Long. The tragedy of the Exiles 
in Florida, whose recital by Giddings aided the 
Abolitionist cause years ago, finds a place among the 
stories, as does the rash expedition of the Texans 
against Santa F^. The author is apparently aware 
of the slender basis of fact upon which many of the 
stories rest, — for instance, that of the beautiful 
Madeline, who resisted the wiles of the usually irre- 
sistible Aaron Burr, or that in which the precocious 
Jennie Wilkinson became the wooer of Dr. Long. 
Where the author ventures on authentic narrative, 
he follows old pathways without much reg^ard for 
modern investigation. Despite the results of Pro- 
fessor McCaleb's investigations, he writes Burr down 
as a traitor. " Burr was guilty," he says, curtly. 
" He had openly talked treason for years. . . . 
That he was acquitted was just as well. To have 
hanged him [stc] would have been to punish one 
man for treason, when it was well known that a 
thousand had been guilty of the same crime without 
any attempt at punishing them." He couples Burr 
with Arnold as "the only renegades to the sacred 
cause of a free and united country." All this not- 
withstanding the fact that John Marshall, the most 
impartial judge who ever tried a criminal case, 
declared that Burr had not been guilty of treason. 
The stories are worth re-telling, and the author tells 
them most interestingly. Doubtless many facts of 



394 



THE DIAL 



[June 16, 



history will be absorbed incidentally by the reader 
in reviewing these stories of adventurous spirits who 
tried at various times to establish an empire in the 
early days of the Southwest. 

Two examples ^^^* .*« *^^ "^^**^^' «*. »^°^«St perfect 
of the book technical workmanship, the charac- 

beautifui. teristic that most impresses those 

who have followed the work of the special limited 
edition department at the Riverside Press is the 
variety of its output, — the marked versatility shown 
in fitting typographical form to literary substance. 
Nearly all of those who have produced the best work 
in this field heretofore, as the Kelmscott and Doves 
presses, have each developed a certain distinct and 
individual style of bookmaking, to which their entu-e 
output more or less monotonously conforms. But 
Mr. Rogers, in his work at the Riverside Press, has 
chosen the immensely more difiicult part of giving 
each of his volumes a dress that suggests somewhat 
the character of the contents, and is typical of the 
country or period to which the book belongs. The 
success with which this is usually accomplished is 
well illustrated by the two latest issues of the press, 
— a reprint of St. Pierre's "Paul et Virginie " in 
the original text, and a selection of *' Songs and 
Sonnets by Thomas Bailey Aldrich." The first- 
named is a thin quarto, printed from type of a French 
cut especially imported for this purpose, and set in a 
spacious, well-proportioned page. A light floriated 
title-page in the French manner, and four illustra- 
tions reengraved on wood by M. Lament Brown 
from the originals in the first edition, make up the 
decorative setting. The binding is of French paper 
boards, with printed title-label. The whole effect 
of the volume, even to the illustrations, is sober and 
restrained, in perfect keeping with the tragic note 
of the tale. Mr. Aldrich's poems, on the other hand, 
are embodied in a trim duodecimo, printed from a 
small size of Caslon type, with a graceful rule 
arrangement in red surrounding the text on each 
page. Deeply embossed in the centre of the dark- 
green board cover is a representation of the intaglio 
head of Minerva that forms the subject of one of 
Mr. Aldrich's best-known lyrics. The idea of re- 
producing this " caryen agate-stone " in such a way 
was unusually happy, for no other symbol could 
express more appositely the general characteristics of 
the poetry contained within these covers. It should 
be said that for this edition Mr. Aldrich has made 
an entirely new selection and arrangement of his 
poems ; and the resulting volume is one that must 
always hold a distinctive place in our literature. 

Mr. Andrew It is hard for anyone to study the 
Sir Walter ^^^^ ^^ Scott without a pious desire to 

Scott. wreak vengeance on the personages 

who did so much to afflict him and turn his natur- 
ally joyous existence into the tragedy which in later 
life it was. We have all wanted to have our fling 
at the caustic Jeffrey, and to instil some sense into 
the infantile minds of the Ballantynes. No wonder, 



then, that so racy and perfervid a Scot as Mr, 
Andrew Lang should in his life of Scott in the 
series of " Literary Lives " (Scribner) display a cer- 
tain acridity of temper toward those who pestered 
Scott and those who led to his ruin. And yet Mr. 
Lang is fail* ; Jeffrey gets no more than his due, and 
as much is said for the impossible Ballantynes as 
can well be. Nor is Scott himself allowed to escape 
without bearing his share of blame for the unneces- 
sarily tragic close of his life. Lang's biography^ 
for a brief one, is very full of details without being 
encyclopaedically dry. Certain minor mistakes com- 
mitted by " English innocence " are corrected — not 
silently, however, — and a new piece of external 
evidence which should have fixed the authorship of 
the novels on Scott before it was known is brought 
forward. The criticism scattered throughout the 
volume, following the chronological order of pro- 
duction, is sane and singularly free from Scottish 
prejudice. " The Lord of the Isles " does make one 
yawn, — and Mr. Lang says so. But he insists, and 
rightly, that the poetic appeal of the " Lay," which 
in 1805 was " absolutely fresh and poignant," as well 
as of the more polished " Lady of the Lake," if not 
the highest, is direct and enduring. To the modern 
contemners of Scott's novels, Mr. Lang scornfully 
addresses Cromwell's words to the Commissioners of 
the General Assembly, ''Brethern in the bowels of 
Christ, believe that it is possible you may be mis- 
taken." It was in his capacity " as a creator of a 
vast throng of living people of every grade, and 
every variety of nature, humour, and temperament, 
that Scott, among British writers, is least remote 
from Shakespeare." 

Indispensable to Everyone who intends to go to 
the European Europe (and who in these days does 
tourist. not?) is much concerned to prepare 

himself, both materially and mentally, for the jour- 
ney. But, do his best, on his arrival there one of 
the greatest drawbacks to his satisfaction proves- 
to be his lack of accurate knowledge. Owing to- 
baggage limitations, he cannot carry many books 
about, and even at places where he expected to feel 
most at home he is surprised to find how vague and 
indefinite his knowledge really is. Even the best 
memory proves inadequate to supply all the names, 
dates, and isolated facts that continually present 
their questions. Miss H. A. Guerber's little book 
"How to Prepare for Europe " (Dodd, Mead & Co.) 
is designed to supply both of these needs. It is an 
advance guide, noting the best books to read before 
the contemplated journey begins ; it is also a min- 
iature reference book to consult en route, supplying 
the most important data concerning the history and 
art of the European and ancient world. It presents 
brief synopses of the history of aU the principal 
foreign countries, followed by descriptions of condi- 
tions and routes of travel in those countries. There 
are also separate chapters on painting, sculpture^ 
architecture, and music, to which hav-e been ap- 
pended chronological, alphabetical, and bibliograph- 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



39& 



ical lists relating to names, dates, events, schools, 
etc. Each country is furnished with an admirahle 
map ; the illustrations have been chosen with a view 
to depicting characteristic features of each country, 
and the classified chronological tables are extremely 
full and satisfactory. The tourist should by all 
means secure this book as a supplement to his indis- 
pensable Baedeker. 

\ew letter g Readers of Robert Browning's poems 

by Robert of "Waring" and ••The Guardian 

Broicninv. Angel " have known that he had a 

"dear old friend " who lived on the '• Wairoa at the 
world's far end." By the aid of commentators, 
they have known also that this friend was Alfred 
Domett, author of the famous " Christmas Hymn," 
and that the Wairoa is the name of a river in New 
Zealand. How dear, how true, and how life-long 
was the fi'iendship which bound together these two 
men we now learn for the first time through a book 
entitled "Robert Browning and Alfred Domett," 
edited by Frederic G. Kenyon, and published by 
E. P. Dutton &. Co. The story is told mainly through 
letters written by Browning to Domett, the replies, 
according to Browning's custom with his letters, hav- 
ing been destroyed. Written chiefly during the years 
1840—1846, they cover a period of Browning's life 
of which little has been made public — the period 
just preceding his marriage, while he was living 
at New Cross, writing and publishing serially his 
"BeUs and Pomegranates." Many who cared little 
for Browning's poetry prerious to the publication of 
his •• Letters to Elizabeth Barrett " were charmed 
by them into loving both man and poet, — so fine, 
so strong, so tender was the personality there re- 
vealed. And in like manner, this collection of 
letters, though small, revealing a masculine friend- 
ship surviving the strain of separation of years, and 
of divided interests, helps to make up an impression 
of a character which becomes the more exalted as it 
is better known. Portraits of Browning, of Domett, 
and of Sir Joseph Arnould (a third in this trio of 
CamberweU friends) illustrate the volume. A poem, 
" A Forest Thought," new to most of us though pub- 
lished in a magazine last year, appears on the first 
page. It is in a very unusual metre for Browning 
— four stanzas of seven rhjoned couplets each, — 
is extremely musical, and was written in 1839 as 
a christening poem for a child to whom Browning 
stood as godfather. 

Organ mu^ic, ^he latest volume in the "Music 
UthiMtoryand Story Series" (imported bv Charles 
deveiopmetit. Scribner's Sons) is devoted* to •' The 
Story of Organ Music," by Mr. C. F. Abdy Williams. 
The author has outlined a historj- of the rise and 
development of organ music, in which the works of 
the leading composers are described. He is of the 
opinion that the history of organ music revolves 
round one gigantic personality, that of Bach, and 
that no organ composer of any eminence has existed 
who has not been largely influenced by him. The au- 



thor has drawn considerably on Ritter's " Greschichte 
des OrgekpieLs," and on the collections of Comer 
and others. Among the musical illnstrations he hsuf 
given the whole of a toccato by Pasquini, whose 
works until recently were supposed to have been lost 
to the world ; and the style of Elizabethan organ 
music is exemplified by a Choralvorspiel by Dr. 
John Bull. In conclusion, the author points out that 
English composers of the first rank are producing 
works that are among the best of the day, and there 
is reason to hope that a school of English organ 
music is arising which will take its place as part of 
the great modern school of English composition that 
is 6o rapidly developing. Mr. Williams's treatise is 
scholarly, clear, concise, and elucidative. 

Autobiography Father George Gapon, the Russian 
of a Bussian revolutionist, was not a great man. but 
revoiudomtt. circumstances, brought about largely 
through his deep interest in the oppressed classes of 
Russia, made him the centre of the great strike of 
Russian workingmen in January, 1905, and a figure 
of international interest. Father Crapon has written 
his autobiography under the title " The Story of My 
Life" (Dutton), showing the rapid change in his 
views from love of the Czar and support of the gov- 
ernment of his country to hatred of both and a lead- 
ing position among rabid revolutionists. This story 
of his life is told with direct simplicity and with 
effect, both the account of his early home life and 
training and the account of the dramatic struggle 
which led to his exile ; it is instructive also as to the 
motives and methods of the revolutionists, and as to 
the corrruption, cruelty, and tyranny of the autoc- 
racy. One can get from this unpretentious book a 
better idea of present social conditions in Russia 
than from many more elaborate studies; yet the 
reader must be on his guard against being misled 
by the sincere but volatile enthusiast whose life and 
opinions are here set forth. 



XOTES. 



A new illustrated edition of "Truth Dexter," by 
Sidney McCall, is published by Messrs. Little, Brown, 
&Co' 

" The Stubbornness of Greraldine," a play in four 
acts, is now added by the Macmillan Co. to their edi- 
tion of the dramas of Mr. Clyde Fitch. 

" The Sources of the First Ten Books of Augustine's 
De Ci\ntate Dei," is a doctrinal thesis by Mr. S. Angus, 
published under the auSpices of Princeton University. 

A volume of "Fishing and Shooting Sketches" by 
the Hon. Grover Cleveland is an interesting annoimce- 
ment that comes to us from The Outing Publishing Co. 

" Studies in English Syntax," by Professor C. Alphonso 
Smith, is a small book containing three " essays in inter- 
pretative syntax," published by Messrs. Ginn & Co. 

The Messrs. Scribner publish "The Page Story 
Book," edited by Mr. F. E. Spaulding and Miss Cathe- 
rine T. Bryce, and containing readings from the books 
of Mr. Thomas Nelson Page prepared for school use* 



396 



THE DIAL 



[June 16, 



" Buddhism " and " Islam," both by Miss Annie H. 
iSmall, are the initial volumes in a pocket series of sim- 
ple " Studies in the Faiths," published by Messrs. E. P. 
Button & Co. 

A new edition of Mr. Ernest Babelon's " Manual of 
Oriental Antiquities," a reference book with many illus- 
trations, and a chapter on the recent discoveries at 
^usa, is published by Messrs. G. P. Putnam's Sons. 

" The Primrose Way," is the special title of the third 
volume in "Mark Twain's Library of Humor," pub- 
lished by Messrs. Harper & Brothers. The mystery of 
the title need debar no one from the joyousness of the 
contents. 

"A Bibliography of the Sanskrit Drama," by Mr. 
Montgomery Schuyler, Jr., is published by the Mac- 
millan Co. for the Columbia University Press. It in- 
cludes an introductory sketch of Indian dramatic 
literature. 

" Propertius," translated by Professor J. S. Philli- 
m^ore, and " Longinus on the Sublime," translated by 
Mr. A. O. Prickard, are two new volumes in the Clar- 
«ndon Press series of Greek and Latin classics, published 
by Mr. Henry Frowde. 

" A Compendium of Spherical Astronomy," with its 
applications to the determination and reduction of posi- 
tions of the fixed stars, is the latest of Mr. Simon 
Newcomb's many contributions to mathematical astron- 
omy, and is published by the Macmillan Co. 

" A Brief Narrative of the Ravages of the British 
and Hessians at Princeton in 1776-77," being a contem- 
porary account of the battles of Trenton and Princeton, 
«dited by Mr. Varnum Lansing Collins, is published by 
ihe Princeton Historical Association. 

" Social Progress " for 1906, published by the Baker 
& Taylor Co., is edited by Messrs. Josiah Strong, W. H. 
Tolman, and W. D. P. Bliss. It is an invaluable com- 
pendium of the latest statistics in the fields of sociology, 
■economics, politics, industry, and religion. 

Vohmie VI. of the " Journals of the Continental Con- 
'gress," edited by Mr. Worthington C. Ford, has issued 
from the Government Printing Office. It covers the 
last three months of 1776, thus completing the three 
volumes required for the proceedings of that eventful 
year. 

From the Wickersham Press, Lancaster, Pa., we have 
the "Proceedings of the American Political Science 
Association " at the Baltimore meeting of last Decem- 
"ber. Among the authors of the printed papers are 
Messrs. F. J. Goodnow, A. B. Hart, Simon E. Baldwin, 
John C. Rose, and W. M. Daniels. 

" The Green Room Book," edited by Mr. Bampton 
Hunt, is a new annual — ■ a " Who's Who on the Stage " 
— published by Messrs. Frederick Wame & Co. Be- 
sides the biographies (and portraits) that make up the 
bulk of the initial volume, there is much miscellaneous 
matter of interest to the profession. 

" The Works of Flavius Josephus," in Whiston's trans- 
lation, newly edited by Dr. D. S. Margoliouth, are pub- 
lished in a single vohmie of a thousand pages by Messrs. 
E. P. Dutton & Co. This volume is a companion in 
form and size to the Bacon recently imported by the 
jsame house. 

The most important addition that is proposed for 
the " World's Classics," published by Mr. Frowde at the 
Oxford University Press, is a complete Shakespeare in 
About seven volumes. The text is being edited by Mr. 
Theodore Watts-Dimton, who has made a life-long study 



of Shakespeare, and he will write a preface to each play, 
adding a bibliography. The first volume is to contain 
a newly-written and important introductory essay on 
Shakespeare and his art by Mr. Swinburne. Mr. Frowde 
hopes to have a portion of the edition ready in the 
autumn. 

" A Political History of the State of New York," by 
Hon. DeAlva Stanwood Alexander, will be published 
this month in two volumes by Messrs. Henry Holt & Co. 
The same firm has m press for early publication a short 
novel entitled " Superseded," by Miss May Sinclair, 
author of " The Divine Fire "; and " How Ferns Grow," 
by Miss Margaret Slosson. 

" The World's Classics " form a series of reprints of 
standard English literature published by Mr. Henrj- 
Frowde. They are dumpy little books, about eighty of 
which have now been published. Sample volumes now 
at hand are Thoreau's " Walden," Sorrow's " The Bible 
in Spain," a volume of " Tales " by Count Tolstoy, and 
the third of the three volumes containing the works of 
Chaucer. 

Since Isaac Walton " made a picture of his own dis- 
position," he has had few truer or more amiable disciples 
than Mr. Edward Marston — author, publisher, and 
" gentle angler," of London. His joy in life and in the 
pursuit of the fisherman's art, retained in spite of his 
eighty years, is shown in the little volume " Fishing for 
Pleasure and Catching It " (imported by Scribner) with 
which he " completes a round dozen of books " devoted 
to his holiday rambles, chiefly along English rivers. 
Interesting notes on fishing tours in Northern Scotland 
and in Wales are contributed by the author's daughter 
and son. 

" A useful collection of American verse " intended to 
" illustrate the growth and spirit of American life as 
expressed in its literature " is the editor's own state- 
ment of what he has sought to produce in " American 
Poems, 1776-1900." The book is mainly for school use, 
and is supplied with notes and biographies. The con- 
tents range from Freneau to Mr. Moody, and represent 
something more than fourscore writers. The volume is 
edited by Mr. Augustus White Long, who has made his 
selections with discriminating intelligence, and is pub- 
lished by the American Book Co. From the same source 
we have also " Nine Choice Poems of Longfellow, 
Lowell, Macaulay, Byron, Browning, and Shelley," 
edited for very youthful readers by Mr. James Baldwin. 



List of Netv Books. 



[The following list, containing 67 titles, includes books 
received by The Dial since its last issue.] 



BIOGRAPHY AND MEMOIRS. 
The Idfe of Sir Richard Burton. By Thomas Wright. In 

2 vols., illus., 8vo, gilt tops, uncut. G. P. Putnam's Sons. 

$6.50 net. 
Leo Tolstoy, his Lilfe and Work : Autobiographical Memoirs, 

Letters, and Biographical Material. Compiled by Paul Biru- 

koff, and revised by Leo Tolstoy; trams, from the Russian. 

Vol. I., Childhood and Early Manhood. Illus., 8vo, uncut, 

pp. 370. Charles Scribner's Sons. $1.50 net. 

HISTORY. 

The Present State of the European Settlements on the 
Mississippi, with a Geographical Description of that River 
illustrated by Plans and Draughts. By Philip Pittman; 
edited by Frank Heywood Hodder. Illus., large 8vo, uncut, 
pp. 165. Arthur H. Clark Co. |3. net. 



1906.] 



THE DIAL 



397 



Personal Narrative of Travels in Virginia, Maryland. Penn- 
sylvania, Ohio, Indiana. Kentucky; and of a Residence in 
the Illinois Territory: 1817-1818. By EUas Pyni Fordham; 
edited by Frederic Austin Ogrg, A.M. lUus., large 8vo, uncut, 
pp. 248. Arthur H. CTark Co. $3. net. 

Audubon's "Western Journal, 1819-1850. By John W- 
Audubon ; with biographical memoir by Maria R. Audubon ; 
edited by Frank Hey wood Hodder. Ill us., large 8vo, uncut, 
pp. 248. Arthur H. Clark Co. $3. net. 

Journals of the Continental Congress, 1774-1789. Edited 
from the original Records in the Library of Congress by 
Worthington Chauncey Ford. Vol., VI.. 1776. 4to, uncut. 
Washington : Government Printing Office. 

GENERAL LITEBATTJBE. 

A History of English Prosody, from the Twelfth Century 

to the Present Day. By George Saintsbury, M.A. Vol. I., 

From the Origins to Spenser. With frontispiece, 8vo, uncut, 

pp. 428. MacmUlan Co. 32.-50 net. 
It€dl£in Romance Writers. By Joseph Spencer Kennard, 

Ph.D. 8vo. gilt top, pp. 472. Brentano's. $2. net. 
Handbook to Shakespeare's Works. By Morton Luce. 

ISmo. uncut, pp. 463. Macmillan Co. $1.75. 
The Mirror of the Century. By Walter Frewen Lord. With 
portraits. 12mo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 263. John Lane Co. 

$1.50 net. 
The King's Eng-lish. 12mo, uncut. Oxford University Press. 
Balzac : A Critical Study. By Hippolyte Adolphe Taine ; 

trans, with an Appreciation of Taine, by Lorenzo O'Rourke. 

With portrait. 12mo, pp. 240. Funk & Wagnalls Co. $1. net. 
Dante as a Jurist. By James Williams, D.C.L. 12mo, uncut, 

pp. 72. Oxford : B. H. Blackwell. 
The Stubbornness of G-eraldine. By Clyde Fitch. 16mo, 

gilt top, pp. 214. Macmillan Co. 75 cts. net. 

NEW EDITIONS OF STANDARD LITERATURE. 

The World's Classics. New vols. : Chaucer's Poetical Works, 
from the text of Professor Skeat, Vol. III., The Canterbury 
Tales; The Bible in Spain, by George Borrow; Walden, by 
Henry David Thoreau. with Introduction by Theodore Watts- 
Dunton; Twenty-three Tales by Tolstoy, trans, by L. and 
A. Maude. Each 24mo. Oxford University Press. Per vol., 
40 cts. 

Complete Works of Abraham Liincoln. Edited by John G. 
Nicolay and John Hay. New and enlarged edition. Vols. V. 
and VI.. iUus. in photogravure, etc., large 8vo, gUt tops, 
uncut. New York : Francis D. Tsindy Co. 

LfOnginus on the Sublime. Trans, by A. O. Prickard, M.A. 
16mo, uncut, pp. 128. Oxford University Press, fl. net. 

Propertius. Trans, by J. S. PhUlimore, M.A. 16mo. uncut. 
pp. 183. Oxford University Press. $1. net. 

Euripides' Alcestis. Trans, by H. Kynaston, D.D. ; with 
Introduction by J. Churton Collins, Litt.D. 16mo, pp. 44. 
Oxford University Press. 

The Mystery of the Lost Dauphin (Louis XVn.). By 
EmUia Pardo Bazdn; trans, from the Spanish by Annabel 
Hord Seegar. With frontispiece, 12mo, uncut, pp. 377. Funk 
& Wagnalls Co. $1.50. 

BOOKS OF VERSE. 

Poems. By Meredith Nicholson. 12mo, gilt top, uncut, pp. 110. 

Bobbs-Merrill Co. $1.^5 net. 
Cassandra, and Other Poems. By Bernard Drew. 12mo, uncut, 

pp.100. London: David Nutt. 
In the Furrow. By Lewis Worthington Smith. With portait. 

16mo. pp. 48. Des Moines: Baker-Trisler Co. 60 cts. 
The World Above : A Duologue. By Martha Foote Crow. 

12mo. uncut, pp. 37. Chicago: Blue Sky Press. $1.50. 
Lyrics. By Gerald Gould. 16mo, pp. 47. London : David Nutt. 

Paper. 
The Htirper and the King's Horse. By Payne Erskine. 

nius., 8vo, uncut, pp. 46. Chicago : Blue Sky Press. $1.50. 
The Fading of the Mayflower. By Theodore TDton. Illus., 

8vo. gUt top, uncut, pp. 114. A. N. Marquis & Co. $1.50. 
Songs of Schooldays. By James W. Foley. Illus., 12mo, 

pp. 129. Doubleday. Page & Co. $1.25 net. 
Pocahontas. By Virginia Armistead Garber. Illus. in color, 

12mo, gilt top, pp. 39. Broadway Publishing Co. 
Verses, By George O. Holbrooke. 12mo, pp. 143. Broadway 

Publishing Co. 



FICTION. 
The District Attorney. By William Sage. 12mo, pp. 296. 

Little, Brown, & Co. $1.50. 
Bembo : A Tale of Italy. By Bernard Capes. 12mo, pp. 310. 

E. P. Dutton & Co. $1..50. 
Breakers Ahead. By A. Maynard Barbour. With frontispiece 

in color, 12mo, pp. 335. J. B. Lippincott Co. $1.30. 
Mr. Pratt. By Joseph C. Lincoln. With frontispiece, 12mo. 

pp. 342. A. S. Barnes & Co. $1.50. 
The Vine of Sibmah : A Relation of the Puritans. By Andrew 

Macphail. Illus., 12mo, gilt top, pp. 432. Macmillan Co. $1.50. 
Sirocco. By Kenneth Brown. 12mo, pp. 292. New York: 

Mitchell Kennerley. $1.50. 
The Voice of the Street. By Ernest Poole. With frontis- 
piece. 12mo, pp. 285. A. S. Barnes & Co. $1.50. 
Vanity Square : A Story of Fifth Avenue Life. By Edgar 

Saltus. 12mo, pp. 304. J. B. Lippincott Co. $1.25. 
The Fortune Hunter. By David Graham Phillips. Illus., 

12mo, pp.214. Bobbs-MerriU Co. $1.25. 
Susan Cleg? and her Neighbors' AfEisdrs. By Anne Warner. 

With frontispiece. 12mo. pp. 220. Little. Brown. & Co. $1. 
The Girl Out There. By Karl Edwin Harriman. Illus., 12mo, 

pp. 356. George W. Jacobs & Co. $1.25. 
In the Shadow of the Pines : A Tale of Tidewater Virginia. 

By John Hamilton Howard. Illus., 12mo, pp. 249. Eaton &• 

Mains. $1.25. 
ff^Tni».Tit.Vift vs. Joaiah : The Story of a Borrowed Automobile 

and what Came of it. By Marietta Holley (" Josiah Allen's 

Wife"), nius., 12mo, pp. 395. Funk & Wagnalls Co. $1.50. 
The Intellectnal Miss Lamb. By Florence Morse Kingsley. 

With frontispiece, 16mo, pp. 100. Century Co. 75 cts. 
Odd Types : A Character Comedy. By B. K. With frontis- 
piece, 12mo, pp. 443. Broadway Publishing Co. $1.50. 
Plantation Tales. By George E. Wiley, M.D. Illus., 12mo, 

pp. 157. Broadway Publishing Co. $1. 

RELIGION. 
Beside the New-Made Grave : A Correspondence. By F. H. 

Turner. 16mo. gilt top, pp. 170. Boston : James H. West Co. 

$1. net. 
Buddhism. By Annie H. Small. With frontispiece, 18mo, pp. 108. 

■* Studies in the Faiths." E. P. Dutton <fe Co. 40 cts. net. 
Islam. By Annie H. Small. With frontispiece, 18mo, pp. 72 

" Studies in the Faiths." E. P. Dutton & Co. 40 cts. net. 

PUBLIC AFFAIRS. 

A Modem Slavery. By Henry W. Nevinson. Illus,, 8vo, 

uncut. gUt top, pp. 216. Harper & Brothers. $2. net. 
Guarding a Great City. By WUliam McAdoo. With portrait, 

8vo, gilt top. pp. 350. Harper & Brothers. $2. net. 
The Election of Senators. By Greorge H. Haynes, Ph.D. 

12mo, pp. 295. " American Public Problems." Henry Holt 

& Co. $1.50 net. 
Citizenship and the Schools. By Jeremiah W. Jenks, Ph.D. 

12mo. pp. i&i. Henry Holt & Co. $1.25 net. 

PHILOSOPHY. 
The History of English Rationalism in the Nineteenth 
Century. By Alfred William Benn. In 2 vols., 8vo. Long- 
mans. Green, & Co. $7. net. 
Luminous Bodies Here and Hereafter. By Charles Hal- 
lock, M.A. 12mo, pp. 110. New York: Metaphysical Publish- 
ing Co. $1. net. 

ART. 

The Talbot J. Taylor Collection : Furniture, Wood-Carving, 

and other Branches of the Decorative Arts, nius., 4to, gilt 

top, pp. 139. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $6. net. 
Porcelain: Oriental, Colonial, and British. By R. L. Hobson, 

B.A. Illua. in color, etc., 8vo, pp. 245. E. P. Dutton <fe Co. 

$3.50 net. 

SCIENCE AND NATURE. 

Lectures on the Method of Science. Edited by T. B. Strong. 
8vo. uncut, pp. 250. Oxford r^niversity Press. $2.50 net. 

A Compendium of Spherical Astronomy, with its Applica- 
tions to the Determination and Reduction of Positions of the 
Fixed Stars. By Simon Newcomb. 8vo, pp. 444.^ Ma cmill a n 
Co. $3. net. 

The Life of ATiimala : The Mammals. By Ernest IngersoU. 
IUus. in color, etc., 12mo, pp. 555. Macmillan Co. $2. net. 

The Garden, You, and I. By the author of '" The Garden of 
a Commuter's Wife." Illua. in color, etc., 12mo. gilt top, 
pp. 397. Macmillan Co. $1.50. 



398 



THE DIAL 



[June 16, 



The Seasons in a Flower Qarden. By Louise Shelton. 
Illus., 12mo, pp. 117. Charles Scribner's Sons. |1. net. 

HISCELLANEOUS. 
Consumption and Civilization. By John Bessner Huber, 

A.M. Illus., large 8vo, pp. 536. J. B. Lippincott Co. $3. net. 
Elementary Pedagropy. By Levi Seeley, Ph.D. 12mo, pp. 337. 

Hinds, Noble and Eldredge. $1.25. 
Epworth Leagrue Methods. By Dan B. Brummitt. 12mo, 

pp. 463. Jennings & Graham. $1. net. 



MSS, 



PREPARED for publication and carefully typewritten. For 
particulars address T. A. W., 314 Second Ave., N. Y. City. 



ROOKS ALL OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS SUPPLIED, 
■-'^-'^-''^*-'» no matter ou what subject. Write us. We can get 
you any booli ever published. Please state wants. Catalogue free. 
BAKER'S GREAT BOOK-SHOP, 14-16 Bright St., Bsmikoham, Ens. 



TO AUTHORS 



Examination, criticism, literary and technical revision. Dis- 
tinctive typewriting. Proofreading. Manuscripts prepared for 
printer. Expert service by thorough workers. Moderate rates. 
Address H. A. STERN, care Dodd, Mead & Company, 

372 Fifth Avenue, NEW YORK. 

STORY-WRITERS, Biographers, Historians, Poets — Do 

^^^^^^^^^-^^^^^— you desire the honest criticism of your 
book, or its skilled revision and correction, or advice as to publication? 
Such work, said George William Curtis, is " done as it should be by The 
Easy Chair's friend and fellow laborer in letters, Dr. Titus M. Coan." 
Terms by agreement. Send for circular D, or forward your book or MS. 
to the New York Bureau of Revision, 70 Fifth Ave., New York. 



Authors' 
.gency 

Mention The Dial R. 



Fifteenth Year. Candid, suggestive 
Criticism, literary and technical Re- 
vision, Advice, Disposal. MSS. of all 
kinds. Instruction. Refekences: 
Mrs. Burton Harrison. W. D. Howells, 
Mrs. Julia Ward Howe, Thomas 
Nelson Page, Mrs. Mary E. Wilkins 
Freeman, and others. Send utamp 
for Booklet to WM. A. DRESSER, 
7, 400 Broadway, Cambridge, Mass. 



STUDY and PRACTICE of FRENCH in 4 Parts 

L. C. BoNAME, Author and Pub., 1930 Chestnut St., Philadelphia. 
Well-graded series for Preparatory Schools and Colleges. No 
time wasted in superficial or mechanical work. French Text: 
Numerous excercises in conversation, translation, composition. 
Part I. (60 cts.): Primary grade ; thorough drill in Pronuncia- 
tion. Part II. (90 cts.i: Intermediate grade; Essentials of 
Grammar; 4th edition, revised, with Vocabulary ; most carefully 
graded. Part III. ($1.00) : Composition, Idioms, Syntax ; meets 
requirements for admission to college. Part IV. (35 cts.*: 
Handbook of Pronunciation for advanced grade; concise and 
comprehensive. Sent to teachers for examination, with a view 
to introduction. 

^^ An unusual book, which from its unique value has won 
its wait to immediate recoynition. 

SUMMER CLASSES FOR THE STUDY 
OF ENGLISH 

Fifth Session, 1906, Cambridge, Mass. 
For Kanuscript Readers and Writers : The study and 
composition of English prose, and of short stories. 

For Teachers : Courses in " Idylls of the King," Fiction, 
Modern English Grammar, Old English, etc. 

Send for full list of courses to 
H. A. DAVIDSON, The Study-Guide Series, Cambridge, Mass. 



WILLIAM R.JENKINS 

851 and 853 Sixth Avenue (cor. 48th Street) New York 

No branch stores 



FRENCH 

and other 
foreign 

BOOKS 



READ CUE 

ROMANS CHOISIS SERIES 

26 Titles. Paper 60c. , cloth 85c. vol. 

CONTES CHOISIS SERIES 

24 Titles. Paper 25c. , cloth 40c. vol. 
Masterpieces, pure, by well-known authors. 
Read extensively by classes ; notes in English. 
List, also catalogue of all publications and 
imported books, on application. 



WORK IN A LIBRARY 

Its pleasures and duties : How and what to 
study for it. Read PUBLIC LIBRARIES, 
a practical journal, monthly. $1. a year. 
Sample copy sent free. 

PUBLIC LIBRARIES 

156 Wabash Avenue CHICAGO 



IheSTUDEBAKER 

Michigan Boulevard, between Congress and 
Van Buren Streets, Chicago. 



MR. HENKY W. SAVAGE OFFEB8 

The Student King: 

With RAYMOND HITCHCOCK 




Luxurious electric-lighted fast 

through train Chicago to Southern 

California, every day in the year, 

via the 

Chicago & North-western, 

Union Pacific 

and Salt Lake Route 

over the only double-track railway between 
Chicago and the Missouri River and via 
Salt Lake City. 

Complete new equipment. All provisions 
for luxury and comfort known to modern 
travel. Pullman Standard and Tourist sleeping 
cars and Composite Observation cars Chicago 
to Los Angeles without change. All meals 
in Dining cars, a la carte service. 

Send 4c in stamps for illustrated booklets, 
maps, railroad rates and full information to 

W. B. KNISKERN, 

Passenger Traffic Manager, 

Chicago A North-Western Ry., CHICAGO. 




1906.] 



THE DIAL 



399 



THE "MAGAZINE PROBLEM" SOLVED 



YEARLY 

SUBSCRIPTION 

FIFTY 

CENTS 



G)h2Ct s in 

(^ Guide A.nd Index 
fo tlic Coulcni's of "die 
Currcnf 'Period icak-ls 



SINGLE 
COPIES 

FIVE 
CENTS 



'PublishcD CDonllily hy 
CKc Dis^l CoiTvpjv.ny 
Chic&oo 



CIt is the purpose of this little publication to make the mass of current 
magazine literature accessible to the every-day reader, — to show just 
what the leading periodicals contain and to indicate the general character 
and scope of the principal articles. It is not a library index, — there 
are no confusing abbreviations or cross-references. The arrangement is 
of the simplest and most convenient sort, to meet the needs of the average 
busy reader. Each issue presents a bird's-eye view of the magazines of 
the month, that will give one in five minutes the information hitherto to 
be obtained only by long and tedious examination of contents-pages on 
the news-stands. 



QPP^I Al For a limited period, "WHAT 'S IN THE MAGAZINES" 

^' ^^^■^■" will be sent to any reader of this advertisement for one 

^N ppr D yea"" O" receipt of 25 cents in stamps or currency — just 

^^ ■ I t r» half the regular price. Specimen copy free on request. 



THE DIAL COMPAXY, Publishers, Fixe Arts Building, CHICAGO 



400 



THE DIAL 



[June 16, 1906. 



Not Scraps and Snippets 

Not condensations or abstracts or extracts, but complete 
articles, reproduced without change from the leading En- 
glish quarterlies, monthlies and weeklies, by the ablest 
writers, on the most timely and important subjects, go to 
the making of 

THE LIVING AGE 

A 64-page weekly magazine, published at Boston, with- 
out missing an issue, for sixty-one years. More than 3,300 
pages each year. — Subscription, postpaid in the United 
States, Canada and Mexico, six dollars a year. — Trial sub- 
scription, three months, thirteen numbers, one dollar. 

THE LIVING AGE CO. 

6 Beacon Street Boston, Mass. 



WHAT WE ARE DOING 
FOR LIBRARIANS 



We now have the most efficient department for the 
handling of Library orders. 

1. A tremendous miscellaneous stock. 

2. Greatly increased facilities for the importation of 
English publications. 

3. Competent bookmen to price lists and collect 
books. 

All this means prompt and complete shipments and 
right prices. ^^^____ 

THE BAKER & TAYLOR CO., wholesale Booksellers 
33-37 Bast Seventeenth Street, New York 



RIGHT ^READING 



Words of good counsel on the choice 

AND USE OF books, SELECTED FROM TEN 
FAMOUS AUTHORS OF THE 19th CENTURT. 



THIS little book, representing the opinions of the 
wisest of our modern authors on a subject of 
the most vital interest and importance to everyone, 
is intended to supply a rational standard of guid- 
ance in the choice and use of books, and will be 
found especially timely and valuable in the present 
day of many books and indiscriminate reading. 
The writers whose advice is here given are Sir 
Arthur Helps, Carlyle, Isaac DTsraeli, Emerson, 
Schopenhauer, Ruskin, J. C. Hare, John Morley, 
Lowell, and Frederic Harrison. 



Beautifully printed at The Merrymount Press 
16mo, 80 cents net. 



A. C. McCLURG & CO., Chicago. 




LIBRARY ORDERS 

For a number of years we 
have been unusually success- 
ful in filling the orders of 

PUBLIC, SCHOOL AND 
COLLEGE LIBRARIES 

No house in the country has bet- 
ter facilities for handling this busi- 
ness, as our large stock makes 
prompt service possible, and our long 
experience enables us to give valua- 
ble aid and advice to librarians. 

Library Department 

A. C. McCLURG & CO. 
CHICAGO 



THE DIAL PRESS, FIKB ABT8 BUILDmG, CHICAGO 



The Soul 
of the People 

An An-The=Year 
Sermon by 

William M. Ivins 



^ A summary of America to-day, 
its essential characteristics, its na- 
tional personality, its short-comings, 
its splendid possibilities. 

^ A sound, sane, hopefully coura- 
geous presentation of conditions by a 
man of affairs and broad experience. 

^ A book to make every reader an 
ardent worker for the America that 
is to lead the world's progress. 

Green Boards. 60 cents net. 

The Century Co., New York 



^A^ 



\ 



J^ 



